MASERU, Lesotho, June 29, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The Prime Minister, Dr Moeketsi Majoro led the sod turning of the Mpilo Boulevard upgrade held at Moshoeshoe I statue park on Tuesday.



The Mpilo Boulevard is aimed at controlling the traffic within Maseru town.

 Dr Majoro said the upgrade will improve the livelihoods of Maseru residents, saying many accidents have occurred at the Mpilo Boulevard so the intersection of this road will improve road safety.

Dr Mojaro said this project began in 2014 when the government saw the need for road expansion around Maseru City Council to cut traffic jams.
                                This project began in 2014 when the government saw the need for road expansion around Maseru City Council to cut traffic jams
                            

Also speaking, the Minister of Local Government and Chieftainship, Mr. Moshe Leoma said the Mpilo Boulevard upgrade project is aimed at improving road safety and traffic control.

Mr. Leoma said the intersection was done by the government of Lesotho in collaboration with the Road Fund.

He further said the project is expected to be completed within 31 months, adding that it is estimated that the Mpilo Boulevard upgrade will cost about M379 million.

The Mayor of Maseru, Mr. Tholang Sefojane said the construction of the Mpilo Boulevard upgrade is a great achievement for the Maseru City Council, however saying even though it came with some challenges.

Mr. Sefojane said the upgrade is the response to public outcry over the lack of roads in Maseru, saying this will improve control of traffic around town.

On behalf of the Principal Chief of Matsieng, Chief Lerotholi Seeiso said the Principal Chief of Matsieng pleaded to the government to inform him about any development in his area, however, saying this construction is going to improve infrastructure in Maseru.

The project entails the construction of new road links, vehicle flyover bridges, underpasses, exclusive pedestrian bridges and signalisation.