LUANDA, Angola, June 6, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The U.S. Embassy in Angola is proud to announce that twelve (12) participants from Angola and three (4) participants from São Tomé and Principe have been selected to participate in the 2022 Mandela Washington Fellowship for Young African Leaders.



Launched in 2014, the Mandela Washington Fellowship is the flagship program of the Young African Leaders Initiative (YALI) and embodies the U.S. commitment to invest in the future of Africa. YALI was created in 2010 and supports young Africans as they spur economic growth and prosperity, strengthen democratic governance, and enhance peace and security across Africa. Since 2014, nearly 5,100 young leaders from every country in Sub-Saharan Africa have participated in the Mandela Washington Fellowship.

Twenty-seven U.S. educational institutions in 20 states and the District of Columbia will host Leadership Institutes for approximately 700 Mandela Washington Fellows. The six-week Institutes, hosted by college and university campuses across the United States, will support the development of Fellows’ leadership skills through academic study, workshops, mentoring, networking with U.S. leaders, and collaboration with members of the local community.

Alumni Enrichment Institutes (AEI) are a new opportunity for 2021 Fellowship Alumni to collaborate with U.S. counterparts and each other and to continue building the professional and leadership skills they developed during their virtual 2021 Leadership Institutes. Up to 200 eligible 2021 Fellowship Alumni were selected in a competitive process to travel to the U.S. in July and August 2022 for three-week placements at U.S. institutions of higher education. Alumni Enrichment Institute programming will include experiential and discussion-based learning on topics such as the United States’ diverse culture and society, resiliency and ethics in leadership, and social justice principles that are broadly applicable to many fields and sectors. The AEI program includes placements at U.S. colleges, universities, and non-governmental organizations.

The following leaders will participate in the 2022 Mandela Washington Fellowship and Alumni Enrichment Institute:
                                YALI was created in 2010 and supports young Africans as they spur economic growth and prosperity, strengthen democratic governance, and enhance peace and security across Africa
                            

MANDELA WASHINGTON FELLOWSHIP – ANGOLA


	Alda Manuel, Luanda
	Arlindo Caiombe, Huambo
	Daniela Simão, Luanda
	Eliana de Freitas, Ondjiva
	Lisa Videira, Luanda
	Manuel Adriano, (replace with his hometown)
	Mariano Capiliku, Lobito
	Solange Teixeira, Luanda


MANDELA WASHINGTON FELLOWSHIP- SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE


	Adbul D”Assunção
	Edson do Rosario Costa
	Jessica Neves


ALUMNI ENRICHMENT INSTITUTE – ANGOLA


	Chris Kaumba, Luanda
	Joaquina Caála, Benguela
	Madaleno Constantino, Lobito
	Zola Vida, Luanda


ALUMNI ENRICHMENT INSTITUTE- SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE


	Celmar Fernandes


Since 2010, 87 Angolans and since 2014, 20 Sao Tomeans have participated in the Young African Leadership Initiatives flagship program. These young leaders return home to make their communities and teams stronger and better engaged to have an impact.

After their Leadership Institutes, Fellows will participate in a virtual Summit. Additionally, up to 100 competitively selected Fellows will virtually engage in professional development with U.S. organizations in the public, private, or non-profit sector. Fellows can participate in Alumni Programming after their Fellowships to further build their professional skills and networks.

The Mandela Washington Fellowship is a program of the U.S. Department of State with funding provided by the U.S. Government and administered by IREX. For more information about the Mandela Washington Fellowship, visit mandelawashingtonfellowship.org.