JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, June 6, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            CEO of international exploration and production company Kosmos Energy Andy Inglis will attend and participate at African Energy Week (AEW) (AECWeek.com) – Africa’s premier event for the oil and gas sector – taking place from 18 – 21 October 2022 in Cape Town, South Africa. Representing one of Africa’s most active international oil and gas independents, the participation of Inglis at Africa’s leading investment platform for the oil and gas sector is critical for driving dialogue around the role companies like Kosmos Energy play in optimizing exploration and production across Africa’s rich basins.





Prior to his current role at Kosmos Energy, Inglis held executive roles at various energy giants including UK-based infrastructure developer Petrofac and Russia’s third-largest oil producer TNK-bp. Inglis led bp’s exploration and production activities during his 30-year-long career with the major where he executed the company’s growth prospects in Azerbaijan, Angola, Algeria, the Gulf of Mexico, Egypt, Trinidad, and the Asia-Pacific region. At AEW 2022, Inglis’ expertise and know-how around managing exploration and production activities for various firms will be vital for the discussion on scaling up upstream activities in Africa.



Since taking over the CEO role at Kosmos Energy in 2014, Inglis has led the American firm in a series of production optimization services in Ghana and Equatorial Guinea and infrastructure-led exploration in proven basins in Equatorial Guinea. The success of Kosmos Energy in Equatorial Guinea, under the leadership of Inglis, led to the firm and its partners securing an extension of the production sharing contract for Block G with the Minister of Mines and Hydrocarbons of Equatorial Guinea – a development that will bring in new investments and accelerate exploration and production across the central African country. With both Equatorial Guinea and other African countries like Ghana, Senegal and Mauritania seeking to expand collaboration with international independents, the deal is a significant and positive development within the continent’s upstream sector at a time when Africa’s capital expenditure across the entire oil and gas value chain continues to decline.
                                AEW 2022 will be the place to sign deals and make decisions that will not only transform Africa’s energy landscape but global energy networks
                            



Meanwhile, with Kosmos Energy representing one of the co-developers of the monumental Greater Tortue Ahmeyim (GTA) project, located on the maritime border of Senegal and Mauritania, Inglis will be instrumental in leading discussions on African gas. Gas represents a particularly lucrative energy resource in Africa, holding the potential to alleviate energy poverty and kickstart sustainable socioeconomic growth while reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Accordingly, AEW 2022 has placed natural gas as a central theme, promoting the role the resource has and continues to play in making energy poverty history while driving the transition to a clean energy future. By coming to AEW 2022 in Cape Town, Inglis will not only participate in industry-advancing discussions on gas but will provide project updates, emphasizing the role GTA gas will play both in Africa and in Europe. 



What’s more, at a time when African gas is becoming increasingly valuable in global supply chains, largely due to European nations looking to divest from Russian gas, projects such as the GTA will be key for addressing energy security internationally. With a number of large-scale gas developments expected to come online in the next few years – phase one of the GTA expects first production in 2023, for example – European markets are looking at improving trade networks with Africa. Recently, German Chancellor H.E. Olaf Scholz traveled to Senegal to discuss possible pipeline developments that will link GTA with Germany. While other nations turn to Africa, AEW 2022 represents the ideal platform for deals to be signed, trade agreements established and Africa-global partnerships formed that will lead the world into a new era of energy security.



“We are honored and proud to host Andy Inglis, Kosmos Energy CEO, at AEW 2022 this year in Cape Town. Kosmos Energy is undertaking significant developments across the continent, particularly in the field of natural gas. As projects such as the GTA come online and European nations seek collaboration with African gas producers, companies such as Kosmos Energy will be instrumental in positioning Africa as a globally competitive gas market. AEW 2022 will be the place to sign deals and make decisions that will not only transform Africa’s energy landscape but global energy networks,” states NJ Ayuk, Executive Chairman of the African Energy Chamber (AEC).



Under the theme ‘Exploring and Investing in Africa’s Energy Future while Driving an Enabling Environment’ Inglis will participate in various summits at AEW 2022, driving discussions on gas, exploration and energy security.