SFAX, Tunisia, June 9, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Located within walking distance of the city centre and historic medina, the Radisson Hotel Sfax (https://bit.ly/3zrRjqB) gives guests the chance to experience the best of a city, with origins dating back to 849 AD. Its prime location means that guests can easily discover impressive landmarks, including the Kasbah Museum, set inside an ancient fortress.



Radisson Hotel Sfax offers 88 bright, contemporary rooms and suites, all with views of the city. It's also an ideal location for events, boasting seven fully-equipped meeting rooms. The hotel includes a number of amenities designed to make guests’ stays more memorable, including a fitness centre, two on-site dining venues, a sun terrace, and an outdoor pool.

Tim Cordon, Area Senior Vice President, Middle East & Africa at Radisson Hotel Group, says: “We are thrilled to expand our presence in Tunisia with the opening of a third hotel in the country. Situated on the shores of the Mediterranean, Sfax is both a tourist destination with centuries worth of culture and history and one of Tunisia’s most important business centres. As such, we’ve designed Radisson Hotel Sfax to cater to both leisure and business travellers. We hope that it will form an important part of the city’s hospitality and business offering.”
                                Situated on the shores of the Mediterranean, Sfax is both a tourist destination with centuries worth of culture and history and one of Tunisia’s most important business centres
                            

Radisson Hotel Sfax’s two dining venues, La Medina and Younga Sky, boast a range of cuisines, from traditional Tunisian fare to European and Oriental favourites. La Medina gives guests the chance to watch chefs prepare their order at a live cooking station while Younga Sky offers stunning views of the city and coastline from its perch on the ninth floor.

The hotel’s Eden Spa, meanwhile, comprises three massage cabins with showers, a herbal tea room, a relaxation room, a sauna and ice cube generator for thermal shock cures, Turkish hammam, a sensory shower, an exfoliation cabin, and an affusion shower.

Jean Marie, Didier General Manager, Radisson Hotel Sfax, says: “It is my honour to lead a highly dedicated and motivated team in welcoming guests to this hotel. Being in the heart of Sfax is a privilege we don’t take lightly. We’re therefore not only excited to give guests the same level of highly professional service they’ve come to expect from Radisson hotels but also to play an active role in the surrounding community.”

The meetings and events area at Radisson Hotel Sfax includes seven meeting rooms and breakout area, a dedicated coordinator, and high-end, state-of-the-art technology, including audiovisual equipment and a conference speakerphone.

With the health and safety of guests and team members as its top priority, Radisson Hotel Sfax is implementing the Radisson Hotels Safety Protocol (https://bit.ly/3MvoNaB) program. The in-depth cleanliness and disinfection protocols were developed in partnership with SGS, the world’s leading inspection, verification, testing and certification company, and are designed to ensure guest safety and peace of mind from check-in to check-out.