DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, June 2, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            In alignment with the company’s philosophy of ‘Kyosei’, that stands for ‘Living and working together for the common good’, Canon (Canon-CNA.com) continues to reaffirm its commitment to Africa by operating closer to its customers thereby commencing its much anticipated debut R-tour for Kenya from 2nd June, 2022; Canon’s R-tour will provide customers and attendants an opportunity to test-drive the company’s pioneering products - EOS R3, EOS R5 C and Powershot Zoom; Canon will also be showcasing the recently announced launch of its first APS-C EOS R System mirrorless cameras, the EOS R7 and EOS R10 – bringing the benefits of the EOS R System to the popular APS-C image sensor format.



Canon Central and North Africa announced today its long-awaited R-tour’s commencement in Kenya from June 2nd that will witness the launch of two of its revolutionary products EOS R3 and EOS R5 C alongside showcasing its newly introduced Powershot Zoom, the EOS R7 and EOS R10. The launch event for R-tour will entail a live practical demonstration of EOS R3 by travel photographer, Peter Ndungu and renowned musician, King Kaka will also be presenting content showcasing the use of EOS R5C. This will be followed by a panel discussion on the ‘Rising industry of Content Creation’ featuring Enos Olik, Commercial Video Producer, Usha Harish, Wildlife photographer and Anwar Sidi, sports photographer together with Canon’s B2C Sales and Marketing Director, Amine Djouahra. Moderated by Victoria Rubadiri, the event will also include a dealers’ conference specifically organized for Canon’s channel partners in Kenya.





DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE TO EXCEED EXPECTATIONS: EOS R SYSTEM

Canon will unveil its pioneering products EOS R3 that offers all the familiarity and speed of Canon’s renowned EOS-1 series, with the innovation and versatility of the pioneering EOS R System. With a brand new, innovative 24.1megapixel sensor, the EOS R3 gives an optimal balance of performance, resolution, and speed to offer news and sports photographers a camera to outperform and outpace the competition. Likewise, The EOS R5 C is a powerful, hybrid cinema camera which combines the professional filmmaking features of the Cinema EOS range with the EOS R System’s photo capabilities. A high-resolution, full frame CMOS sensor, DIGIC X processor and the RF Mount, are the crucial three elements that enable high fidelity 8K capture, and 45 megapixels still photo capture at burst speeds up to 20 frames per second, all in a single body of the EOS R5 C.





AN EXPERIENCE TO REMEMBER 



To amplify the experience up a notch, Canon has created different experiential booths each with a specific purpose or need catering to a particular audience, thereby ensuring focused attention is delivered to all incoming requests from attendees.  There were different booth set-ups installed at the event showcasing different genres, production booth, Check and Clean booth and R system and lens line up. The booth for production set up provided cinematographers as well as enthusiasts a complete line-up of extraordinary products that can dramatically upscale the quality of the video content. The Check and Clean booth acted as a guidance point in cleaning, checking and maintaining Canon camera and accessories whereas the R booth will showcase an entire line-up of the Full frame mirrorless series along with an experiential set up to allow customers to touch and try the product. Canon’s Generation R community brings EOS R System users together with other creative photographers and experts to pursue and share their passion while exchanging knowledge. The Generation R booth will embody the spirit of this community taking it a notch higher and making the entire experience more personal with the on-ground presence. Furthermore, a ‘Lens Bar’ will also be set up to facilitate experiential learning on the spot for attendees thus maximizing interaction and engagement.



LOOKING FORWARD 
                                We have seen some exceptionally brilliant photographers come out of Kenya and some equally breath-taking and nerve-wracking photographs take birth from the WRC Safari Rally
                            



Building on its ethos of putting people first, the company aspires to fortify its presence in Kenya by engaging directly with consumers and partners through the means of R-tour, thus opening doors for direct conversations and feedback. The R Tour in Kenya will bring together channel partners, selected professional Photographers, social media influencers and media, among others to create a truly inspirational platform for its consumers to engage and interact. The dealer’s conference will invite channel partners from across Kenya to participate in Canon’s vision of building a strong and sustainable market for the country.



“We are thrilled to launch R-tour in Kenya that serves as a very significant market to us. We have seen some exceptionally brilliant photographers come out of Kenya and some equally breath-taking and nerve-wracking photographs take birth from the WRC Safari Rally. Kenya is swiftly making its mark in sports and wildlife photography with the market evolving at a rapid pace. The R-tour gives us an opportunity to get closer to our customers, photographers, partners, fans and enthusiast who want to deep-dive into the world of photography but either lack resources or opportunities. Through the R-tour, we want to ensure that we create these micro-opportunities for all those interested in learning about Canon, its products or even photography in general that they can leverage on. For me, R-tour stands for building relations and that’s what we are here for in Kenya,” commented Amine Djouahra, Director of Sales and Marketing, Canon Central and North Africa.



Canon envisions to continue engaging with end-users through a series of events including Photo walks, Masterclasses, Competitions, and Generation R Community events among others.  Progressing into the day, R-tour will also witness Canon’s first of its kind Coffee Table Book that puts a spotlight on sports photography, Canon Professional Services (CPS) and some of the leading sports photographers of the country.



The next R-tour from the company is anticipated to take place in Egypt.



Click here (https://bit.ly/3zfzzyM) for more details to join the Generation R Hub community!

For more information on EOS R3: here (https://bit.ly/3ad3SeR)!

For more information on EOS R5C: here (https://bit.ly/3aqp5C4)!

For more information on EOS R7: here (https://bit.ly/3m5dVoX)!

For more information on EOS R10: here (https://bit.ly/3x54VFj)!

For more information on Powershot Zoom: here (https://bit.ly/3x556jX)!