ANKARA, Turkey, June 11, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Turkish Cooperation and Coordination Agency (TİKA), the Ministry of National Education of the Republic of Türkiye, and the Namibia University of Science and Technology (NUST) held the “Training on Current Approaches to Tourism Education” in Windhoek, the capital of Namibia.



The ceremony was attended by Berin Makbule Tulun, the Republic of Türkiye’s Ambassador to Windhoek; Prof. Efigenia Semente, Dean of the Faculty of Commerce, Human Sciences and Education at the NUST; and faculty members at the NUST. Ambassador Tulun delivered a speech at the ceremony and stressed that TİKA implemented another successful project. She added that she hoped this training would boost tourism, which is one of the main sources of income in Namibia and was adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Prof. Semente thanked TİKA for its contribution and said she hoped their cooperation would improve.
                                During the 5-day training module, applied training was provided on the floors and in the kitchen, restaurant, and rooms of the university’s training hotel
                            

Applied training was provided

As part of the “Training on Current Approaches to Tourism Education,” which is the introductory module of TİKA’s Tourism Education Program; Ersümer Eren, Principal of Falez Vocational and Technical High School in Antalya, affiliated with the Ministry of National Education of the Republic of Türkiye, and teachers İsa Keleş and Ömer Günay provided useful information about the tourism industry in Türkiye. During the 5-day training module, applied training was provided on the floors and in the kitchen, restaurant, and rooms of the university’s training hotel.

The tourism industry in Türkiye was discussed

Trainers discussed various topics, including “An Overview of Current Approaches to Tourism Education, and Education Vision 2023,” “An Overview of Vocational Training in Tourism in Türkiye,” “Tourism Education Practices in Some European Countries,” “Alternative Tourism,” “Types of Tourism in Türkiye,” “On-the-Job Training Model Implemented in Türkiye,” and “Schools of Tourism and Hospitality Management in Türkiye.” Certificates were presented to 21 participants who successfully completed the training.

At the end of the ceremony, the Turkish Embassy in Windhoek served various Turkish dishes and Turkish coffee on the occasion of the Turkish Cuisine Week.