ANKARA, Turkey, June 11, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Turkish Cooperation and Coordination Agency (TİKA) modernized the Science and Invention Museum in the Palace of Science in Monastir, Tunisia.



An opening ceremony was held for TİKA’s project for the modernization of the Science and Invention Museum in Monastir, located 160 km south of Tunis, the capital of Tunisia. The ceremony was attended by Çağlar Fahri Çakıralp, Türkiye’s Ambassador to Tunis; Ali Fuat Cebeci, TİKA’s Coordinator in Tunisia; Salah Nasr, Director of the Monastir Cultural Center; and local authorities.

In his speech at the ceremony, Ambassador Çakıralp said, “I believe that the palace of science, which was founded to help Tunisian young people and children develop a cultural, scientific, and intellectual vision, will provide an opportunity to improve the relations between Tunisia and Türkiye in the field of scientific education. This project is a key indicator of the cooperation between the two countries in the field of education and training.” Çakıralp thanked TİKA for its projects in Tunisia and said, “The Science and Invention Museum was only one of TİKA’s over 200 projects worth $50 million in Tunisia. TİKA will continue to support people-oriented and sustainable projects in Tunisia.”
                                The Palace of Science in Monastir is an important scientific center visited not only by people of Monastir, but also by students and young people from other provinces of Tunisia
                            

The project aims to foster the culture of science and research among the public 

Ali Fuat Cebeci, TİKA’s Coordinator in Tunisia, delivered a speech about the project, and said, “The Palace of Science in Monastir is an important scientific center visited not only by the people of Monastir, but also by students and young people from other provinces of Tunisia.” Cebeci added that the project for the modernization of the Science and Invention Museum was one of their most important projects in Tunisia.

Cebeci noted that TİKA modernized the Science and Invention Museum in the Palace of Science in Monastir and equipped it with interactive devices for use by children, students, and young people. He added that as part of the project, the existing simple mechanisms in the Science and Invention Museum, which includes different areas such as space, astronomy, biology, and marine science, was renovated, and that the Museum was equipped with several screens, 3D modules, simulators, and appropriate software.

Cebeci reminded that they built a science laboratory integrated into the international FabLab network in the Palace of Science in Monastir 5 years ago, and stated that this project aimed to increase the interest of Tunisian children and young people in science and technology and contribute to the tourism potential of Monastir Province.

Salah Nasr, Director of the Palace of Science in Monastir, said that they were pleased with this project, which aimed to foster the culture of science and research among the public. He thanked TİKA for its contribution.