CAPE TOWN, South Africa, June 14, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            On June 10 to 12, 2022, the Consulate General in Cape Town together with the Consul for Protocol and Consular Affairs and their staff, visited and provided food logistics assistance, prevention of Covid 19 such as vitamins, personal hygiene, masks, medicines. medicine and assistance for winter work safety equipment such as gloves, sweaters, beanie hats, socks to Indonesian crew members who docked at Cape Town Harbor, including:



1. Matsuei 03, 18 Indonesian crew members JK Berth
2. Tronio ship (5 people Stanby crew) ) at Landing Wharf
3. Dae Sung ship 226, 12 crew, at M Berth
4. Dae Young ship 112, 8 Crew, at M KBerth
5. Dae Sung ship 216, 9 crew, at Mberth
6. Dae Young ship 111, 10 Crew, at J KBerth
7. Koryo Maru 38, 20 Indonesian crew members at JK Berth
8. Wakashio Maru 128, 21 Indonesian crew at JK Berth

During the meeting, Indonesian crew members were satisfied with the service and attention from the Indonesian Consulate General in Cape Town which routinely conduct circumnavigational Life Skill visits to existing ships which rests in Cape Town's harbor.
                                As a form of protection for Indonesian citizens of the Indonesian Consulate General in Cape Town, we are here to fight for the rights that must be obtained
                            

In addition, Protkons officers received complaints from 43 Indonesian crew members from Taiwan-flagged ships Dae Sung 226, Dae Sung 216, Dae Young 111 and Dae Young 112. They complained about the salary system that was not on time, bonuses were not issued, and the total amount was not transparent. the use of cashbon on the ship.

And the plan is that the Indonesian crew members will carry out a PCR test and on Monday 13 June 2022 they will be returned to the land on that day and only 8 Indonesian crew members are asked to be on standby on board.

For this reason, the Consul of Protkons and staff of the Indonesian Consulate General in Cape Town immediately acted quickly to meet the ship's agent and ship manager, who initially did not want to meet and find excuses. 

As a form of protection for Indonesian citizens of the Indonesian Consulate General in Cape Town, we are here to fight for the rights that must be obtained. The result of the discussion is that the ship manager and ship agent in Cape Town will be responsible and coordinate with agents in Indonesia to send the remaining transfers of salaries and other rights.

And the crew of the ship finally received the holding money before returning to Indonesia. The Protkons function of the Indonesian Consulate General in Cape Town is still monitoring this issue until it is resolved. Then during the visit, they were reminded again about the regulations for international travel to Indonesian ABK returning home, namely that they are still preparing for a PCR test (even though the regulations are already overseas travel to Indonesia does not require PCR results anymore), preparations for showing proof of vaccines, and for Indonesian crew members who have not received the vaccine to Prepare to undergo 5 days of quarantine in Indonesia and must download the CareProtective application.

The officer also reminded Indonesian crew members to maintain their health considering that winter had arrived.