MBABANE‎, eSwatini, March 31, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The “Give our future a shot” campaign aims to mobilise community members in various Tinkhundla to vaccinate against COVID-19. From 30th March until 26th May 2022, teams will be visiting these Tinkhundla: Kwaluseni, Mbabane West, Mhlume, Manzini North, Shiselweni II, and Lobamba. 



With the objective of limiting the number of EmaSwati who get infected, become seriously ill, are hospitalised, or die as a result of COVID-19, this mobilisation intends to empower residents with information about the vaccines. This is with the purpose of encouraging citizens to protect themselves and their loved ones against the virus.

Furthermore, to give community members an opportunity to get vaccinated, vaccination sites will be set-up on the days that the teams are in your Inkhundla. If anyone misses that chance, there will be more opportunities to vaccinate. This will for example be when healthcare workers are back in the Inkhundla two to three days after the mobilisation to administer vaccines.
                                These mobilisation efforts will go a long way towards contributing to increasing the country’s vaccination rate to 70% by June of this year
                            

“We are excited to see partners across private and public sectors collaborating to make COVID-19 vaccines more accessible to all. These mobilisation efforts will go a long way towards contributing to increasing the country’s vaccination rate to 70% by June of this year.

We encourage EmaSwati to engage with the mobilisation teams and do their part by getting vaccinated,” says Ministry of Health’s Bongiwe Dlamini, Health Promotion Program Manager - Risk Communication and Community Engagement (RCCE) Lead.

In addition to travelling with a mobile billboard and utilising a public address system to get people’s attention, educational flyers and posters containing vaccination sites information will be distributed across Tinkhundla.

Dlamini adds, “With the vaccination rate increasing, so many people’s lives will be preserved, the COVID-19 infection rate will go down, pressure on the healthcare system will be alleviated, and the country’s economic recovery will be enabled.” 

To follow through with your vaccination, get registered for the COVID-19 vaccine now on www.EswatiniHealth.org. For emergencies or serious health events, EmaSwati may call 977.