ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia, March 17, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            An African Union programme dedicated to the sustainable management of the environment and natural resources on Monday 14 March 2022, officially commenced its second implementation phase. The Global Monitoring for the Environment and Security, and Africa (GMES and Africa), marked the kick-off of its second phase with an award and signing ceremony in Cotonou, Republic of Benin. Eight consortia representing the five regions of Africa received the award and signed the grant agreement which signified their commitment to implementing the programme in the next four years.
                                Professor Mohamed Belhocine, recognized the necessary intra-African collaboration that contributed to the success of the programme’s first phase
                            



During the ceremony, the African Union (AU) Commissioner for Education, Science, Technology and Innovation (ESTI),  Professor Mohamed Belhocine, recognized the necessary intra-African collaboration that contributed to the success of the programme’s first phase. Commissioner Belhocine underscored the need to promote a coordinated continental approach in the management of Africa’s abundant but fragile natural resources. The award ceremony was witnessed by the Maritime Prefect of Benin, as well as the European Union and ECOWAS representatives. All three officials acknowledged GMES and Africa as a significant vehicle for sustainable socio-economic development and pledged their institutions’ support to the new phase.

GMES and Africa is a Pan-African programme implemented by the African Union Commission and jointly funded by the European Union. It harnesses earth observation data and information to support policy and decision making in the management of natural resources and the environment. An enabling pillar of the African outer space flagship, the programme is implemented through grants supporting regional and national projects across Africa. The implementing institutions apply for the grants as consortia, and selection is through an open and competitive process.