DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, March 17, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            In alignment with the company’s core pillars of innovation and diversification, Canon (www.Canon-CNA.com) recently joined hands with Copy Cat group as authorized distributor, to further augment its B2B printing solution offerings in the Kenyan market. This alliance between the two companies is envisioned to fortify Canon’s connection with its East-African consumers through Copy Cat’s widespread presence and reach.



Canon Central and North Africa announced today of its business partnership with Copy Cat group as authorized distributor to further fortify its commitment in Kenya by operating closer to its customers and meeting their demands in the rapidly evolving market, by establishing a strong route to market through a highly respected printing solutions provider. The B2B partnership highlights Canon’s corporate philosophy of ‘Kyosei’ meaning living and working together for the common good, thus ensuring the company’s B2B portfolio of printing & copier products & MPS solutions , become accessible to all industry verticals such as Banking, Financial Services, Insurance, Healthcare, Education and more.

Established in 1984, Copy Cat is a leading technology company in East Africa specializing in Office Automation and IT solutions. Their portfolio includes IT services such as Software, Hardware, Network, Cyber Security, Cloud and Application Services. Copy Cat also offers Office Automation services including printers, scanners, document management software & banking machines such as note counters and depositors. This mutual effort put forward by Canon and Copy Cat is intended at strengthening the printing landscape as well as nurturing the spirit of innovation and development in Kenya and East-Africa.

“We are extremely excited and proud to join hands with the Copy Cat Group and I am affirmative that this partnership will propel development of the managed print & document solutions industry in Kenya by strengthening distribution of our innovative solutions in the market in various sectors such as banking, healthcare and education. Canon is consistently innovating to develop new technologies across a range of sectors that can meet the demands of our rapidly growing market as well as diversifying into new industries including medicine, space exploration, smart cities and more to adapt to changing market trends. This partnership will strengthen Canon’s offerings in Kenya and East-Africa markets by aligning our visions with Copy Cat’s outstanding level of skills and experience of connecting local needs with global technology,” – commented Somesh Adukia – Managing Director, Canon Central and North Africa  
                                I am affirmative that this partnership will propel development of the managed print & document solutions industry in Kenya by strengthening distribution of our innovative solution
                            

Closer to Customer – Collaborate to Win 

For years, Canon has continued to deploy its closer to customer strategy by strengthening its distribution network in various regions. Canon’s emphasis on innovation has allowed it to deliver cutting-edge technology for over 80 years, and this singular vision has shaped the evolution of the company as it pioneers various industry verticals across Africa. By tapping into the significant gap between customer demand and service offerings in the print market, the partnership between Canon and Copy Cat will help meet soaring customer demand from diverse industry sectors. As a thumb rule, Canon combines best-in-class technology with a portfolio of services and support and invests heavily to give its partners industry-leading products and packages to sell. Canon aims to create a winning environment for Copy Cat by empowering them through exceptionally high-grade products, lucrative packages as well as sales support, tools, insights, thereby creating an ecosystem to excel with a holistic 360 degree approach.

 “Partnering with Canon is a brilliant milestone for us at Copy Cat, we are thrilled to have the support of Canon, a World leader in the fields of professional and consumer imaging and printing equipment and information systems. Our partnership stems from our combined goal of bringing innovative technologies to Kenya and East Africa and serving the swiftly evolving consumer needs from the market. There are many industries in Kenya that are in high need of excellent managed printing solutions and through our partnership with Canon, we aspire to cater to these unmet demands from across industries to support them in growing their business. Together, we are now equipped to serve our customers from a stronger position ensuring that they receive a great value-proposition from us. This is the beginning of an extremely exciting journey,” remarked Vishal Patel, Managing Director – Copy Cat.

With its strong foothold in terms of technology in Kenya, Copy Cat will further strengthen its portfolio by adding Canon’s exceptional service offerings to customers. The two companies will play to each other’s strength to establish a robust and resilient printing eco-system to meet unmet customer demands from various industry verticals across Kenya and East-Africa.