KIGALI, Rwanda, March 24, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The Government of Japan announced its support to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) operation and the refugee response in Rwanda, amounting to USD 1.18 million.



This contribution from the Japanese government will boost the efforts of UNHCR in various health related services accessed by refugees and the host community in and around the Mahama Refugee Camp.



The generous support from the people of Japan will contribute to the strengthening of the basic health cares systems; improving water and sanitation conditions, especially in areas where there are high risks of Covid-19 spread; addressing Covid-19 infection and prevention through knowledge and development of effective prevention habits and behaviours for children and adolescents. In addition, this contribution will also enhance the provision of protection and psychosocial support to the most vulnerable displaced persons and the host community, such as Gender-Based Violence (GBV) survivors.



At the end of February 2022, the Mahama Refugee camp, located in Kirehe District, Eastern Province, hosted 55,907 refugees – mainly Burundian and Congolese.


                                We’re happy to get this lifesaving support as we continue to mitigate and prevent the impacts of Covid-19 on refugees and the host community.
                            

The project will be implemented for a duration of 11 months, from February to December 2022, thanks to the generosity of the Japanese government and the people of Japan.



Mr. Ahmed Baba Fall, the UNHCR Representative to Rwanda, commended the government of Japan for its continued support in providing humanitarian assistance to persons of concern in Rwanda; noting that the support will allow UNHCR to cover life savings needs in the sectors of protection health and WASH, but also to strengthen the Covid-19 response in refugee in Mahama camp and the host communities.



“We’re happy to get this lifesaving support as we continue to mitigate and prevent the impacts of Covid-19 on refugees and the host community. Ensuring adequate healthcare is accessible to the people we serve is a key part of ensuring their protection, while durable solutions are being sought. We are thankful for the Japanese government for standing with refugees during this global pandemic.” said Mr. Baba Fall.



H.E. Mr. Masahiro Imai, Ambassador of Japan to Rwanda said: “It is our pleasure that this project through our support will improve the health of refugees in Mahama Camp and their living environment, including water and sanitation, and contribute to infection prevention through Covid-19 risk awareness education. Japan appreciates the efforts which have been made by the Rwandan Government and UNHCR in this regard, and we wish to continue working with them”



The government of Japan has an excellent track record of supporting UNHCR’s humanitarian work globally. In Rwanda, Japan has supported UNHCR operations with funding amounting to over 10 million USD over the past 10 years.