PRETORIA, South Africa, March 23, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            President Cyril Ramaphosa will host the fourth South Africa Investment Conference (SAIC) on Thursday, 24 March 2022 at the Sandton Convention Centre, Johannesburg.



This annual event was initiated by President Ramaphosa in 2018 in an effort to secure domestic and inbound investment of R1,2 trillion over five years.

The South Africa Investment Conference attracts delegates from South Africa, the rest of the continent and further afield  to explore investment opportunities in the country.

Since the first investment conference in 2018, South Africa has attracted R770 billion in commitments across a wide range of economic sectors.
                                President Ramaphosa will will officially open the conference and address a dinner event tomorrow, 24 March 2022
                            

This year’s conference follows President Ramaphosa’s State of the Nation Address in which the President underscored South Africa’s attractiveness as an investment destination and trade partner, with government working in partnership with business, labour and civil society to create the environment for business to flourish and create jobs.

The investment conference provides a platform for South Africa to showcase a broad range of investment opportunities in the context of South Africa’s Economic Reconstruction and Recovery Plan and African continental free trade. The plan supports economic recovery towards growth and a rebound in employment through structural reforms and investment in infrastructure.

The conference will also feature updates on how earlier investment commitments have progressed.

The gathering will profile the strengths and comparative advantages South Africa offers investors and trade partners in a period of growing African integration through the African Continental Free Trade Area.

President Ramaphosa will will officially open the conference and address a dinner event tomorrow, 24 March 2022.

The President’s addresses will be livestreamed on all PresidencyZA digital platforms.