KINSHASA, Democratic Republic of Congo, March 3, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Merck Foundation (Merck-Foundation.com), the philanthropic arm of Merck KGaA Germany announced the Winners of Merck Foundation Film Awards ‘More Than a Mother’ 2021 in partnership with African First Ladies who are also the Ambassadors of Merck Foundation More Than a Mother. The theme of the awards was: to create a film or docudrama to deliver strong and influential messages about breaking Infertility stigma, Empowering Girls and Women through Education at all levels.



Senator, Dr. Rasha Kelej, CEO of Merck Foundation, President of “More than a Mother” campaign emphasized, “I am extremely happy to announce today the winners of Merck Foundation Film Awards “More Than a Mother” 2021 in partnership with African First Ladies. Big congratulations to all the winners. I appreciate the efforts put in by the young talents across Africa in their films through which they have beautifully conveyed important messages in line with the theme of the awards. I strongly believe that all forms of art including filmmaking can play a significant role in bringing about a culture shift in society, in the world. Our aim was to utilize this medium to encourage promising filmmakers and new talents across the continent to create short or long films either drama documentary or docudrama conveying messages to break the stigma of infertility or empower Girl Education at all levels.”

This year, Merck Foundation had two categories: English and French.

Here is the list of Award Winners:

FIRST POSITION (English): 


	Sharon Kavhu and Hatite Hoabeb, NAMIBIA


Film Name: Matumaini

Link: bit.ly/3McVCtM




	Emulo Kgomotso, BOTSWANA


Film Name: 3 in 5

Link: bit.ly/3Mkc7o0



SECOND POSITION (English): 


	Nanmet Anthony, NIGERIA


Film Name: Future Present 

Link: bit.ly/3sE69Xc



FIRST POSITION (French):


	Doux-mignon MALOBA, DRC


Film Name: Le défi de Mariana

Link: bit.ly/34eZ0Du





Merck Foundation ”More Than a Mother” Film Awards were launched in 2017.

Winner of 2017 edition:

Ms. Molatelo Mainetje, SOUTH AFRICA

Film Name: Womb Man

Link: bit.ly/3ttAMhl



Winners of 2019 Edition:

Ms. Cecilia Oppong-Badu, GHANA
                                I strongly believe that all forms of art including filmmaking can play a significant role in bringing about a culture shift in society, in the world
                            

Film Name: Her She Woman

Link: bit.ly/3sB14yX



Mr. Godfred Dela Duvi, GHANA

Film Name: Exhale

Link: bit.ly/3HE3eC0





Ms. Jane Labous, SENEGAL 

Film Name: Angels

Link: bit.ly/3HAkdFn





Ms. Fatou Fadiga, GUINEA

Film Name: Infertile

Link: bit.ly/3hGtpNP





Senator, Dr. Rasha Kelej further added, “I would also like to announce the Call for Applications for the new edition of the Merck Foundation Film Awards ‘More Than a Mother’ 2022. I am looking forward to the entries from our African Filmmakers and students of film making institutions this year too.

However this year, I’d like to emphasize that the theme in 2022 aims to address wider range of topics such as: Breaking Infertility Stigma, Support Girls’ Education, End Child Marriage, End FGM, Stopping GBV and Women Empowerment at all levels.

Filmmakers and Young talents of Africa, it’s time to showcase your talent and contribute towards making a difference in society with your unique films with strong and relevant messages about app critical ca and sensitive issues we face in our continent. Be the voice of the voiceless, break the silence and let’s all join hands to create a cultural shift.”



Who can apply?

All African Filmmakers, Students of Film Making Training Institutions or Young Talents of Africa are invited to create and share a long or short FILMS, either drama, documentary or docudrama to deliver strong and influential messages to address any of the following social issues such as: Breaking Infertility Stigma, Support Girls’ Education, End Child Marriage, End FGM, Stopping GBV and Women Empowerment at all levels.



 Last Date of Submission

30th July 2022



How to Apply?

Please share your work as YouTube links on: 

submit@merck-foundation.com

Share a short brief about the issue you are addressing 



The subject line of the mail should mention: Merck Foundation FILM Awards “More Than a Mother” 2022

Please specify your name, institution name, country, and contact details in the mail.

Categories:


	English
	French
	Portuguese
	Arabic




Prize money: USD 1000 for each category.

Selection committee can decide to award more than one winner for each category based on the quality of work received.