LILONGWE, Malawi, March 20, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            More than nine million children are to be vaccinated against polio in the first round of a mass campaign across four countries in Eastern and Southern Africa, after an outbreak was confirmed in Malawi.  



The drive, led by governments, with the support of UNICEF and partners, was launched today in Malawi, and will be followed on Thursday with campaigns starting in neighbouring Mozambique, Tanzania and Zambia.

Three more rounds of vaccination will follow in the coming months, covering a total of more than twenty million children. 

“This is the first case of wild polio detected in Africa for more than five years and UNICEF is working closely with governments and partners to do everything possible to stop the virus in its tracks,” says Mohamed M. Fall, UNICEF Regional Director for Eastern and Southern Africa.
                                A regional response is vital as polio is extremely contagious and can spread easily as people move across borders
                            

“Polio spreads fast and can kill or cause permanent paralysis.”

UNICEF, the World Health Organization and other partners of the Global Polio Eradication Initiative are supporting governments with the urgent drive, after it was confirmed last month that a three-year-old girl was paralysed by wild poliovirus in Lilongwe in Malawi.

People most commonly contract polio when they drink water that is contaminated with the faeces of someone who carries the virus. Children under the age of five and those living in areas with poor sanitation are most at risk.

“A regional response is vital as polio is extremely contagious and can spread easily as people move across borders,” says Mohamed M. Fall. 

“There is no cure for polio, but the vaccine protects children for life. We are working with the World Health Organization and other partners to make sure parents, as well as community and religious leaders, know how important it is that every child receives their vaccine.”

UNICEF has procured more than 36 million doses of polio vaccine for the first two rounds of immunisations of children in Malawi, Mozambique, Tanzania and Zambia and is helping to prepare the following response:


	In Malawi, UNICEF is installing 270 new vaccine refrigerators, repairing vaccine refrigerators and distributing 800 remote temperature monitoring devices, vaccine carriers and cold boxes. In partnership with the World Health Organization, UNICEF has trained 13,500 health workers and volunteers, 34 district health promotion officers and 50 faith leaders.
	In Mozambique, UNICEF has procured 2,500 vaccine carriers and has delivered 100 cold boxes and is assisting with the swift delivery of vaccines from national to provincial stores.  UNICEF is also supporting the training of 33,000 supervisors and frontline workers on vaccine management and social and behavioural change, as well as training of journalists, distribution of communication materials and broadcasting radio and TV spots to support the polio campaign.
	In Tanzania, UNICEF has trained 2,147 health workers, 5,128 social mobilizers and 538 town criers, and facilitated the procurement of 3,000 vaccine carriers and 360 cold boxes, expected to be delivered in April 2022 for use in the upcoming rounds of campaigns.
	In Zambia, more than 200 trainers are coaching healthcare workers at the provincial and district level, with support from UNICEF and partners.  District officials have been trained on polio surveillance, in partnership with the World Health Organization.