KIGALI, Rwanda, March 25, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                        
                    The “Africa’s Business Heroes” (ABH) (AfricaBusinessHeroes.org) prize competition, one of the Jack Ma Foundation’s flagship philanthropic programs spotlighting and celebrating Africa’s entrepreneurial talent who are building a more sustainable and inclusive economy for the future of the continent, has today launched applications for its fourth annual edition.



Today also marks the television premiere of the 3-episode series for the ABH 2021 competition. The show follows the journeys of the top 10 finalists from 2021 as they geared up for the grand finale. It was filmed in 12 African countries and will premiere on CNBC Africa on March 25 and be broadcast across Africa on StarTimes, DSTV, VoxAfrica and a number of African local TV stations, including Rwanda Television. The show will also air on ABH’s official YouTube channel later this year.



Audio 



“Entrepreneurship in Africa is experiencing a strong upward trajectory and it is so encouraging to see. But there are still so many entrepreneurs whose inspiring stories and impactful businesses need a spotlight, and who could benefit from additional support. And so the Africa’s Business Heroes prize competition is encouraging extraordinarily talented entrepreneurs from all 54 African countries, across every single sector, age group, and gender to apply in either English or French for a chance to win their share of a 1.5 million dollar grant, access to training, mentorship, and more. We want to enable entrepreneurs that are not only building successful businesses, but who are also running mission driven organizations that generate growth for their local communities across Africa. If this sounds like you, join the Africa’s Business Heroes prize competition today. It’s African Time,” said Zahra Baitie, Head of Partnerships & Programs, ABH.





Applications will be open online until 6th June 2022 with semi-finalists announced in October and the top ten finalists for 2022 unveiled in November. To apply and for more information about ABH, please visit: https://africabusinessheroes.org/en/register and follow us on Twitter (bit.ly/3wBUV7S), LinkedIn (bit.ly/36KuX7A), Instagram (bit.ly/358i5Ye) and Facebook (bit.ly/37NRKQb).



Read the full press release for more details: bit.ly/3wAk9Ug