DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, March 28, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Canon Central and North Africa (www.Canon-CNA.com) recently celebrated its annual hallmark event at Kempinski MOE, Dubai on 16th and 17th of March in an endeavor to bring together Canon employees & official Service partners in its yearly service conference; In alignment with Canon pillars of innovation, empowerment and excellence, the theme of the conference was centered on ‘Service Par Excellence’.



Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) hosted its fifth annual conference at Kempinski MOE, Dubai on 16th and 17th of March bringing together Service management teams as well as its service providers and partners throughout Central and North Africa regions to discuss enhanced remote support, hybrid trainings, new warranty offerings, innovative service contracts as well as improvement on the spare-part logistics. The two-day event was held in person after a long haul of two years due to the prevailing COVID-19 crisis. Themed ‘Service Par Excellence’, the conference served as an opportunity to recognize Canon partners for their outstanding contributions in the previous year – 2021 as well as to discuss and deploy strategic action points in terms of business and service direction for 2022. As part of its second day itinerary on 17th March, the conference also involved a visit to Canon and other key pavilions at EXPO 2020 Dubai in order to deliver an engaging and interactive experience for partners.

CLOSER-TO-CUSTOMER
                                We will continue to diversify our product portfolio in different markets by deploying our ‘closer-to-customer’ strategy by fortifying our existing and new relationships
                            

The Service Conference gave partners an insight into new business and growth opportunities, new areas of service development, service enhancement strategies and understanding of  remote and hybrid services. CCNA since its establishment in 2016 had started with14 authorized service partners and has now expanded its reach to 62 authorized service partners covering the African region.

“As a company, we are continuously refining our service offerings by being committed to our partners in providing the perfect go-to-market-mix of tools, trainings and innovative products. We want our partners to play an active role in understanding the business direction for Canon, this conference serves as an excellent opportunity to not only share those insights but also to gain valuable feedback from them. We will continue to diversify our product portfolio in different markets by deploying our ‘closer-to-customer’ strategy by fortifying our existing and new relationships with our partners”, commented Somesh Adukia, Managing Director – Canon Central and North Africa.

SERVICE PAR EXCELLENCE – AWARDS 

CCNA presented Service Awards to its partners at the conference for key contributions in driving innovation for service excellence, customer satisfaction and ensuring timely availability of Canon’s Genuine Consumables and Spares parts. Following awards were presented at the ceremony for contributions towards year 2021:


	Best B2C Service Partner 2021 – Silicon 21 - Egypt
	Spares Drums Growth (B2B) 2021 – Sabi Systems - Algeria
	Promising New Partner (Service Delivery, KPI)2021 – Copy Cat - Kenya
	President Award (Overall Best CCNA Service Partner) 2021 – Gabon Meca - Gabon
	Remote Services Utilization 2021 – ARKEOS - Algeria
	Best Independent Service Provider 2021 – Investec – Nigeria




As a closing statement, Somesh Adukia pledged Canon’s commitment to their partners’ success in the year ahead. “Building on our core philosophy of ‘Kyosei’, we will continue to create a symbiotic relationship for our partners through technology, innovation and service excellence, despite any challenges we will foster our relationships to create a win-win situation for all.”