JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, March 28, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The African Energy Chamber (AEC) (EnergyChamber.org) is proud to announce that H.E. Mahamane Sani Mahamadou, Minister of Petroleum, Energy and Renewable Energies of the Republic of Niger will be speaking and participating at Africa’s premier energy event, African Energy Week (AEW)2022 - taking place in Cape Town on October 18-21, 2022. The Minister’s participation will be critical as other African hydrocarbon producers seek to learn from best practices implemented by Niger to expand its oil and gas sector and as the west African country seeks partnerships that would help increase investment within its energy segment.



Since H.E. Mahamadou took office in April 2021, his main focus has been on how best Niger can fully leverage its oil and gas reserves while embarking on the modernisation of business operations within other energy segments such as renewables. Despite only having served as Minister for a relatively short period of time, H.E Mahamadou has taken significant steps to transform Niger’s energy sector. With plans to position the country as a regional oil and gas competitor, the Minister is focused on signing deals, forming partnerships and driving investment and development across multiple sectors in Cape Town.



“The participation of H.E. Mahamadou at AEW 2022 will be a game changer in knowledge sharing amongst African energy leaders. Niger not only represents one of Africa’s most established oil and gas sectors but one of the strongest democracies. By coming to Cape Town in October and engaging with regional energy ministers, public and private sector executives, and global investors, Niger will be able to further strengthen its own energy sector while collaborating with other African countries to expand energy networks,” stated Tomás C. Gerbasio, Strategy and Business Development Director for AEW.



With an estimated 34 billion cubic feet of gas reserves and 3,754 million barrels of estimated barrels of oil in place, of which 957 million barrels are recoverable, Niger has the potential to help the entire continent address its energy challenges and ensure that energy poverty is curbed by 2030, a primary objective of AEW 2022.
                                Niger will be able to further strengthen its own energy sector while collaborating with other African countries to expand energy networks
                            



Projects such as the $4.5 billion Niger-Benin Export Pipeline - which Niger is developing to transport up to 90,000 barrels of oil per day - represent a huge milestone for the country, as well as an enabler of economic growth.  The pipeline is expected to be operational in 2023 and will increase Niger’s oil and gas production five times over, a development that will position the country as both a regional and international energy hub. Niger is also planning to establish the 4,128km Trans-Saharan Gas Pipeline Project that will connect sub-Saharan with the European markets to enhance natural gas trading between the two regions, a development that will provide huge energy sector and economic expansion opportunities for Niger. 



Meanwhile, with the west African state currently being ranked among the top 15 fastest growing economies by the International Monetary Fund, the oil and gas sector is expected to play an increasingly important role in the further expansion of the Niger economy. Through 2025, the oil and gas sector is expected to generate 24% of Niger’s GDP, account for 45% of tax revenues and 68% of exports and help accelerate job creation.



Gerbasio added “Through the sharing of best practices on how to develop an investment attractive oil and gas sector, Africa will be able to push for a just transition that delivers energy affordability and security by leveraging its oil and gas resources. The time to push for optimal exploration and production of oil and gas to address African needs woes is now and AEW 2022 provides the best platform for African energy leaders to have the conversation and develop solutions.”

At AEW 2022, H.E Mahamadou will provide policy recommendations Niger is implementing to optimise its oil and gas sector and how they can be adopted by other African states to ensure more capital is directed towards exploration and production. The minister will also share with African colleagues how the oil and gas sector is enabling Niger to create more jobs and ensure economic development and energy resilience at national, regional, continental and international levels.



AEW 2022 provides the most suitable platform for a real discussion on Africa’s energy future. By hosting panel discussions on topics such as exploration and production in a reduced capital expenditure climate, the role regional energy networks play in driving continental growth, and the importance of enabling environments, AEW 2022 aims to address all of the challenges faced in Africa.