MASERU, Lesotho, March 7, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The founder and organiser of the Moshoeshoe Walk in partnership with sponsors of the walk thus the Lesotho National Development Corporation (LNDC) and Lesotho Tourism Development Corporation (LTDC) have confirmed that this year’s event will start on March 10 to 12, 2022 at Menkhoaneng to Thaba-Bosiu.



This year’s theme for the Moshoeshoe Walk is the ‘The walk to Remember’ and this year’s walk marks its 15th Anniversary.

This three-day annual event’s edition was outlined during the press conference held at State Library in Maseru on Monday.

Addressing the media, the Founder of Moshoeshoe Walk, Mr. Thabo Maretlane of T-Connexion said the route for 2022 Moshoeshoe Walk has changed as the camping will be at Thaba-Phatsoa Primary School instead of Ha Ramapepe, saying this is due to the damaged bridge at Ha-Ramapepe because of the heavy rains in the country.

As part of the event, 2000 indigenous trees will be planted at Menkhoaneng, noting the total of trees to be planted during the walk will be 10,000.
                                The three-day journey of approximately 116km aims to re-kindle the spirit of unity among Basotho as it is embodied in the legacy left by the founder King Moshoeshoe I
                            

In conclusion, Mr. Maretlane thanked all sponsors who always ensured that this walk becomes a success every year and further appealed to local businesses to sponsors this event as it celebrates the founder of the Basotho nation.

Speaking on behalf of the LTDC, Mrs. Manchafalo Motšoeneng remarked that this walk has for the past 14 years helped the country to honour King Moshoeshoe I, the founder of Basotho nation and promoted tourism in the country.

She noted that the 2022 Walk marks a pathway for the 2024 Moshoeshoe Walk which will mark 200 years of his departure from Menkhoaneng to Thaba-Bosiu, saying this walk is one of the milestones for boosting tourism in the country thus ensuring the country’s economic growth through tourism.

The LNDC Public Relation Officer, Mrs. Tiisetso Moremoholo said LNDC’s mandate is to initiate, promote and facilitate the promotion of commerce and industry in the country with the purpose of improving the economy.

Mrs. Moremoholo pointed out that while LNDC is focused on attracting investors, it is important to educate them to know about Lesotho hence they are supporting this walk.

The Moshoeshoe Walk is an annual event that started in 2007. It has been successfully organized by T-connections and Thaba-Bosiu Cultural Village. It is a historical walk which has attracted both local and international tourists.

The historic walk starts from Menkhoaneng in the Leribe district and ends in Thaba Bosiu, Maseru and has been hailed by Their Majesties King Letsie III and Queen Masenate Mohato Seeiso as a successful historic and international milestone for Basotho.

The three-day journey of approximately 116km aims to re-kindle the spirit of unity among Basotho as it is embodied in the legacy left by the founder King Moshoeshoe I.