DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, March 2, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Speaking at next month’s Middle East Energy Dubai (MEE) (www.MiddleEast-Energy.com), the most reputable and comprehensive energy event in the MENA region, Ali Zerouali, one of Morocco’s leading industry experts is set to outline why Morocco’s diverse energy mix and mission to decarbonise make it the perfect role model for petroleum and gas reliant Gulf states.





Held under the patronage of HH Sheikh Maktoum bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Deputy Ruler of Dubai, and hosted by the UAE Ministry of Energy & Infrastructure, Middle East Energy Dubai, the most reputable and comprehensive energy event in the MENA region, takes place at Dubai World Trade Centre from 7 – 9 March.



The event is expected to attract over 18,000 energy professionals for a three-day conference featuring five key product sections: Smart Solutions, Renewable & Clean Energy, Critical and Backup Power, Transmission and Distribution, and Energy Consumption and Management.



Ali Zerouali, Head of Cooperation & International Development at the Moroccan Agency for Sustainable Energy (Masen), will take to the stage at the industry-shaping Global Energy & Utilities Forum to outline why Morocco, with its abundant renewable energy resources, is the rising star of the MENA energy landscape.



Set to appear on a panel to discuss decarbonising industries, Zerouali will shine the spotlight on the country’s dynamic approach to building clean energy export markets while addressing its own domestic energy challenges, energy creation and supply, highlighting the strategies, technologies, financing and supply chain arrangements required for this critical part of the energy transition.



“Middle East Energy provides MASEN and Morocco’s diverse assortment of energy sector pioneers with the perfect venue to see how we are transforming the nation’s energy sector – and why our unique energy mix is a sustainable solution for Gulf states and the wider world,” said Azzan Mohammed, Exhibition Director, MEE.



“Europe’s well-known investment in Morocco’s burgeoning hydrogen sector is building on the country’s remarkable achievements in the solar sector. This burgeoning energy renaissance will allow Morocco to meet the significant challenge of lowering its fossil energy imports even while its economy continues to grow."



Morocco’s unique energy mix will turn the global energy transition in its favor. With the recent investment of EUR1.6 billion from the European Union to finance energy transition in Morocco, the kingdom's goal of increasing the share of renewable energy in its electricity mix by 52% by 2025 is looking ever more achievable. Morocco is counting on independent power producers, particularly ones based in Europe, to increase its installed capacity and the share of renewable energy in its electricity mix and our platform can act as a springboard for discussion to make this happen,” added Mohammed.
                                Europe’s well-known investment in Morocco’s burgeoning hydrogen sector is building on the country’s remarkable achievements in the solar sector
                            



Middle East Energy Dubai attendees will find a wide range of policy and technology solutions – from utility-scale to small scale renewables and distributed energy resources – on display and under discussion. They will enjoy access to high-level strategic panels, technical sessions, roundtable discussions and workshops.



Informa, organisers of the event, have confirmed over 800 global exhibitors will participate in the 47th edition of the energy showcase, with marquee brands including Lucy Electric, Cummins, Emirates Transformers, Ducab, Riyadh Cables Group and Bahra Cables Company set to showcase a range of solutions and technologies to accelerate the path to the energy transition.



Other confirmed panellists at the Forum include Stephan Gobert, Senior Vice President – Hydrogen AMEA, ENGIE; Michael Mair, VP Growth and Development, Europe, Middle East & Africa, Wood; Lina Osman, Head – Sustainable Finance, Africa & MENAP, Standard Chartered; Sabrin Rehman, Managing Director – Head of Sustainability, Middle East & Africa, HSBC; Maximilian Jarrett, Africa Program Manager, International Energy Agency; Sowunmi Olabole II, Office of the Senate, National Assembly – Nigeria; Michael Geissler, Chief Executive Officer, Berlin Energy Agency; Graham Hallett, Development Director, Marjan Island.



As part of the Forum, the focus of discussion will be on developing a roadmap to decarbonisation, an insight into the energy systems of the future, the green hydrogen opportunities in the MENA region, funding of the energy transition, the rise of sustainable finance, powering the African continent with renewable energy, grids of the future, energy efficiency focus and decarbonising industries.



In addition to Global Energy & Utilities Forum, a series of Technical Sessions will provide valuable knowledge on critical topics dominating the headlines within the energy community. World-class technical experts will lead sessions, sharing industry best practices across four core pillars of the energy sector, including Digitalisation & Smart Grids, Renewables, Green Hydrogen, and Energy Storage.



Rounding out the conferences at this years’ edition of Middle East Energy is the InterSolar Middle East Conference. This year's focus will be on photovoltaics, PV production technologies and solar thermal technologies. Since its foundation, this yearly conference at Middle East Energy Dubai has become the most important industry platform for manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, service providers and partners of the global solar industry.



As part of Informa's commitment to providing the highest hygiene and safety levels, the event will again take place under the protocols introduced via the company’s Informa AllSecure health and safety mandate (https://bit.ly/3IO5JDv). The enhanced measures include 35 guidelines covering all aspects of cleaning and hygiene, social distancing measures, and the use of PPE, screening, and a track and trace in conjunction with local authorities.



Sponsors include Perkins, Baudouin, Newage Stamford AVK, and Rieloo UPS at this years' event.



To register for the event, please click on the following link, https://bit.ly/3sgQLjR