PORT LOUIS, Mauritius, March 11, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            A presentation of the revamping process of Youth Centres to Youth Hubs across Mauritius was held, this afternoon, at the Côte D’Or National Sports Complex in the presence of the Minister of Youth Empowerment, Sports and Recreation, Mr Jean Christophe Stephan Toussaint.



The revamping of the 23 Youth Centres, an initiative of the National Youth Council under the aegis of the Ministry of Youth Empowerment, Sports and Recreation, will span over three years. During Phase I, eight Youth Centres will be revamped, namely at Floreal, Goodlands, Helvetia, Souillac, Mahebourg, Montagne Blanche, La Cure, and Dockers Village.

In his address, Minister Toussaint recalled that the first Youth Centre was inaugurated in Souillac in 1989. He dwelt on the vision of Government to transform these Centres into modern Youth Hubs with state-of-the-art infrastructure and new activities. To that end, a sum of Rs 165 million will be disbursed and in a few months, works will start, he said.
                                Minister Toussaint underlined that the objective is to support opportunities for the youth to develop their physical, social, and cognitive abilities and to experience achievement
                            

Minister Toussaint underlined that the objective is to support opportunities for the youth to develop their physical, social, and cognitive abilities and to experience achievement, leadership, enjoyment, friendship and recognition.

On that occasion, a presentation was made by the Principal Youth Officer and Secretary of the National Youth Council, Mr P. Ajodha, on a survey carried out from July to October 2021 to determine how many people go to Youth Centres. A total of 9,136 respondents were interviewed, out of whom 96% were aged between 14 to 35 years old. The survey revealed that 53% have been to a Youth Centre, 46% prefer to go after office hours, and 73% during weekends. Sixty-three percent of respondents visit Youth Centres to practice sports activities while 56% go for leisure, and 53% for artistic purposes.

Out of those 47%who have never been to a Youth Cemtre, 10% said it was because they had no time, 14% because of the infrastructure/equipment, and 16% because of lack of activities. The survey revealed that the highest number of respondents preferred Facebook (78%) as a means of communication, 61% through Instagram, and 27% through newspapers. Hence the need, stated Mr Ajodha, to revamp the Youth Centres into a place which will meet the needs and aspirations of the youth in the country.

Exchange of documents and cultural programme

The Fashion and Design Institute has been chosen to design the new Youth Hubs. In that context, an exchange of document was held, during the presentation event, between the Chairperson of the National Youth Council, Mr Joseph Ramsamy, and the Director of the Fashion and Design Institute, Ms Sabrina Iranah-Ramsamy.

The presentation was also marked by musical interludes by Teenagers Groups and a cultural performance by the winner of ‘Zenes montre to Talan 2021’, Ms Sarah Theveneau. These shows were organised in the context of the 2022 National Youth Day.