GAUTENG, South Africa, April 22, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            A delegation of the North West Provincial Government led by Premier Kaobitsa Bushy Maape visited Deelpan village on Thursday 21 April 2022. The visit forms part of ongoing efforts by government to find solutions to the flood stricken community of Deelpan.



To date nine eighty (98) households have been displaced and are in despair following heavy rains in the area.

Various government departments have so far provided different forms of support which include water, mobile clinics, food , blankets, counseling as well as Social Relief of Distress.

The Red Cross, Gift of the givers, Old Mutual and Shoprite have also stepped in to provide support to the community.
                                A recovery plan for learners who have been affected by the floods is on the cards and will be implemented by the provincial Department of Education
                            

The department of Human Settlements will commence a process of securing two hundred (200) housing units for residents who have been left stranded by the floods.

The department of Economic Development is also conducting an assessment of businesses that have been affected and will in due course announce intervention measures in this regard.

A recovery plan for learners who have been affected by the floods is on the cards and will be implemented by the provincial Department of Education. This includes compulsory winter classes for all matriculants in the area.

Premier Maape announced that the Provincial Disaster Management Center will liaise with their national counterparts to extend the national services to the province.

Premier Maape has also assembled a Task Team whose primary objective will be to monitor, assess and expedite intervention measures needed in the area.

The team comprises of the Traditional Leadership, Executive Mayor of Ngaka Modiri Molema District Municipality, Councilor Khumalo Molefe, MEC for Cooperative Governance, Human Settlement and Traditional Affairs, Lena Miga, MEC for Social Development, Boitumelo Moiloa as well as MEC for Economic Development Environment, Conservation and Tourism, Keneetse Mosenogi.

Premier has also tasked MEC Miga to consult with the affected families regarding relocation to the identified area as their houses are likely to be affected by the floods in the future.