KAMPALA, Uganda, April 5, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Members of staff in the office of the former Speaker, the late Rt Hon. Jacob Oulanyah have given their eulogies describing him as a humble and nurturing boss.



Speaking on behalf of the staff, the Principal Press Secretary of the former Speaker, Sarah Kagingo commended the late Oulanyah for his humility and broad-minded character.

This was at a vigil of the late Oulanyah on Monday, 04 April 2022 at his residence in Muyenga, a suburb of Kampala, Uganda's capital.
                                Whenever he spoke, it was intellectual nourishment and growth for us who were always around him; we pray for his soul to rest in peace
                            

Kagingo said that the former speaker was indiscriminate when he had to pick the team of people assigned to work with him.
“All he cared about was your character, desire to work and delivery,” she added.

She said that this made him a natural nationalist who was anti-tribalism. Kagingo upheld the fallen Speaker for being an impeccable leader who was nurturing to all those at his service.
“He was a boss who loved the people who worked with him and made us feel very comfortable around him,” she added, further stating that he laced everything with humour and was easy to work for.

Kagingo held that Oulanyah sought to lead in unity and had wanted to hold a debate inclusive of all those from different political divides to work towards the common goal of the country.

She decried the growing vice of members of the public mating out toxicity towards individuals in positions of responsibility.
“There is a growing culture of trolling people online, a sheer sense of ostracising others and that is something that we must fight,” she said.
Kagingo told the congregation that the Speaker worked hard even when he was ill and was constantly guiding people especially those who sought his help.
“Whenever he spoke, it was intellectual nourishment and growth for us who were always around him; we pray for his soul to rest in peace,” she said.

David Nuwagaba, the former Aide of the late Oulanyah supplemented that, “he was a friend and who treated them like his family and took care of us as we did him”.