PRETORIA, South Africa, April 1, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The first drops from the Nooitgedacht Water Scheme were delivered yesterday, 31 March; this is the last step towards the finalisation of Phase 3 of the project which is meant to augment water supply to the Nelson Mandela Metro and surrounds.



The delivery of these first drops comes after the Minister for Water and Sanitation, Mr Senzo Mchunu, made a vow during his visit to the project site on 11 March 2022, accompanied by the Member of Executive Council for Eastern Cape COGTA, Mr Xolile Nqatha, Executive Mayor of the Metro, Cllr Eugene Johnson, and the former Board members of Amatola Water.

The original scheme was commissioned in 1993 with a capacity of 70ml/day. The Nooitgedacht Water Treatment Works receives its raw water from the Gariep Dam which is situated up country and is therefore not affected by local droughts.
                                Nooitgedacht Water Treatment Works is delivering about 190 megalitres of water per day, of which 70 megalitres is being transferred via the Stanford Road Booster Pump Station
                            

The Metro has over the last number of years, carried out the planning, design, tender preparation, contract administration and contract supervision for the augmentation of the Nooitgedacht supply scheme.

The DWS has intervened and appointed the Amatola Water Board as an implementing agent for phase 3 of this project. The project completion date was initially set for June 2021 and later moved to September 2021, but has faced delays owing to budget constraints and contractual matters which has since been resolved.

During the working session in the province last year in August, Minister Mchunu was requested by former Mayors and later by the business sector to intervene, for the completion of the project to be realised.

On 29 March 2022, the contractor conducted a water supply shutdown that was required to carry out the final connection for Phase 3. The connection work was a success, and currently Nooitgedacht Water Treatment Works is delivering about 190 megalitres of water per day, of which 70 megalitres is being transferred via the Stanford Road Booster Pump Station to the Western areas.

“We are very elated that we’ve released the first drops on time, as promised to the citizens; this has been a long time coming and we are indeed grateful. The Metro has been experiencing drought for the past seven years and with the constant threat of ‘Day Zero’, this comes as a reassurance that water will be provided to our people. The realisation of these first drops is through the concerted efforts of all – Government (at all spheres), the private sector and the citizens – the social compact which the President has been emphasising on. Thank you to all those who dedicated their time and did not tire in their efforts, we are indeed grateful. We do still however encourage residents of Nelson Mandela Bay Metro and all South Africans to use water sparingly!,”  said Minister Senzo Mchunu.