PARIS, France, April 11, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The Institut Choiseul (www.Choiseul.info) invites young leaders who would like to join the Choiseul 100 Africa ranking as well as the broader Choiseul Africa family to apply online. Applications are open between April 11th and May 7th, 2022.



The reference ranking of young African leaders

Launched in 2014, the Choiseul 100 Africa is an annual study conducted independently by the Institut Choiseul that identifies and ranks the 100 young African leaders aged 40 and below who are playing or expected to play an important role in Africa’s development.

Beyond a ranking, the Choiseul 100 Africa has become an unparalleled pan-African network of influence that stands out as an exclusive community of leaders and highly skilled game-changers taking the reins of the economy and decision-making bodies in Africa.

By honoring business and institutional leaders, entrepreneurs and innovative project leaders, the Choiseul 100 Africa aims to highlight the dynamism of the African decision-makers’ young generation.

Operating in 16 business sectors that underpin African growth, the Choiseul 100 Africa laureates represent the diversity and dynamism of a forward-looking continent.

Sectors represented in the Choiseul 100 Africa
                                Operating in 16 business sectors that underpin African growth, the Choiseul 100 Africa laureates represent the diversity and dynamism of a forward-looking continent
                            

Finance, telecoms, ICT, banking, energy, education, transport/logistics, agribusiness, industry, commerce, services, real estate/construction, health/care, cultural industries/media, institutions, sport business

Opening of online applications

In order to identify the best candidates from the continent, the Institut Choiseul wishes to invite young African leaders to apply online on the Choiseul Africa (https://bit.ly/3jI5sah) website.

The candidates chosen by the selection committee will join the Choiseul Africa family which today includes more than 500 laureates and alumni (former laureates who have passed the 40-year age limit) in 47 out of the 54 countries of the continent.

Choiseul Africa, the initiative that highlights the excellence and diversity of the continent



The Choiseul Africa initiative aims to approach Africa with confidence and optimism, highlight the continent’s significant assets and shape a unique network of economic leaders on the whole continent.

Through the many meetings organized alternately in France and in Africa (Algeria, Angola, Ivory Coast, Egypt, Morocco, etc.), the Choiseul Africa network has become a platform for synergies and exchanges between economic and political decision-makers who are making changes at the highest level in Africa, and leading to the birth of structuring projects for the continent.

Institut Choiseul has been organizing the Choiseul Africa Business Forum since 2019, which is one of the most important fruits of the Choiseul Africa initiative. Dedicated to the development of business opportunities in Africa and with Africa, this investment forum brings together nearly 600 of the most influential decision-makers and senior economic leaders in Africa and Europe. Previous editions of the Choiseul Africa Business Forum have reinforced the status acquired by the Choiseul Africa initiative: that of a European key player in understanding the issues of economic governance on the African continent and its dialogue with Europe.