DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, April 8, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Canon (https://Canon-CNA.com) fortifies its commitment towards education and empowerment of people by partnering with Ishara Mara to launch an experience center in the Maasai Mara National reserve that will not only educate and empower people but also spread awareness about the park’s delicate eco-system. The experience center will incorporate various features like photography lessons, competitions, photo booths, gallery and more. 



Canon Central and North Africa informed of its proud partnership with Ishara Mara to launch the Canon Experience Center at the Maasai Mara National Reserve in Kenya, in an announcement today. Dedicated to support education and empowerment of people, Canon’s Experience Center aims to raise awareness about the nature and wildlife whilst empowering the indigenous Maasai people and surrounding community by providing a unique and immersive photography, video and print experience at the national reserve.

AN EXPERIENCE FOR ALL 

From indoors to outdoors, the Canon Experience Center at Mara will offer guests a range of options to explore the captivating beauty of the national park. Canon’s touch and try experience at the center will allow guests to get their hands on the company’s cutting-edge cameras, lenses with lens bar experience, and binoculars along with official Canon Mara Experience vehicles built with photographers in mind.
                                From indoors to outdoors, the Canon Experience Center at Mara will offer guests a range of options to explore the captivating beauty of the national park
                            

CHASING THE THRILL - CAPTURING WILDLIFE 

As part of the experience, guests can also opt for a tour that incorporates wildlife and nature photography lessons at the center or during game drives along with an option of a mentor/teacher assistance. In an endeavor to promote the spirit of creativity and imagination, guests at the center will also be invited to participate and share their ‘Best Shot’ photo from the Mara with the chance to be exhibited in the Canon Mara gallery at the center.

“We are extremely proud of this partnership with Ishara Mara that is rooted in spreading awareness and education as well as empowerment of the local communities. Through the Canon Experience Center at mara, our vision is to create a space where each party be it the guests or the local communities or even nature itself, can benefit in some way. There is something for everyone at the center and it is the true embodiment of Canon’s core philosophy of Kyosei which means living and working together for the common good,” said Somesh Adukia, Managing Director – Canon Central and North Africa.

POWER IN THE HANDS OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES  

As part of the company’s relentless bid to empower people and give back to the communities, Canon’s Miraisha programme has partnered with Ishara in a Mara initiative which envisions to educate and train the local Maasai indigenous tour-guides with necessary skills thus transforming them into Canon ambassadors and content creators. The grassroots initiative envisions to play to the strengths of the local Maasai people and their excellent knowledge of the area by placing the power of photography in their hands. The first step of the program is to ensure the local Maasai guides get a thorough understanding of the basics of photography along with a comprehensive training on how to use Canon equipment to further enable and empower them to teach guests, photographers, tourists as well as local Maasai people. The initiative also looks at encouraging the local community in the area to become content creators by creating content on various topics such as Human Coexistence with the Environment and Wildlife, Maasai Tribe and Culture, Wildlife Photography, Wildlife Beauty, Protection, Preservation and Environmental Conservation. Likewise, the initiative also looks at promoting and empowering women to become Maasai tour-guides by providing various training and educational opportunities. Canon will further support these trained guides to purchase official Canon equipment through its exclusive packages designed for the Maasai tour guides.

The Canon experience center at the mara is open from 15th March 2022. For more details, please log on - https://bit.ly/3LNJ8rA