LAKES STATE, South Sudan, April 11, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            A two-day forum for traditional and community leaders in Rumbek, facilitated by the Civil Affairs Division of the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS) sought to focus on the roles played by these important influencers on building peace, reconciliation, and mitigating conflict.



“The respect that traditional leaders command from communities is immense,” said Khalif Farah, Civil Affairs Team Leader in the UN Peacekeeping mission’s Rumbek Field Office.

“They have the power to inspire and educate people in a culture of peace,” he added.

This credibility to influence positive social change is what the UNMISS-led forum sought to tap in to.

Thirty-five participants, including local chiefs, executive directors and payam [administrative division] administrators, drawn from all eight counties in Lakes state came together to discuss the Local Government Act of 2008 as well as understand the difference between customary and statutory laws in their country.
                                Chol Kuotwel reiterated the need for all partners to support communities as South Sudan transitions from conflict to a permanent peace
                            

Through interactive sessions and group discussions, participants discussed the implementation of the Revitalized Peace Agreement; the need to uphold human rights; increased cooperation between local leaders and the government; as well as their own roles in building a sustained peace at the grassroots.

Their main aim: To contribute fully and effectively as leaders of the people to upholding the rule of law and reducing violence.

These free-and-frank exchanges led to 18 resolutions being adopted, including a unanimous call for comprehensive disarmament in the state as well as monetary compensation plus capacity building for traditional authorities to fully embrace their role as peace agents.

For his part, Chol Kuotwel, state Minister of Local Government and Law Enforcement Agencies reiterated the need for all partners to support communities as South Sudan transitions from conflict to a permanent peace.

“It gives me immense pleasure to see our community leaders, who are the backbone of this young nation, come together to build peace from the ground up. I assure everyone that the government will do its part to ensure the resolutions adopted today can be upheld fully to ensure a brighter future for the citizens of Lakes state,” stated Minister Kuotwel.

Speaking on behalf of all local authorities attending the workshop, Abingo Dingur Makuac, Executive Director, Wulu county, summed up the dividends of the two-day intervention by UNMISS succinctly.

“Our people are tired of war. They are exhausted by the daily struggle to feed their families and keep them safe. It is our responsibility to make sure that the children of today do not have to go through the horrors of repeated conflict cycles. We can only do that if we come together for peace as a single unit. I will make sure my community members follow these 18 resolutions closely and so will other leaders,” he said.

Participants requested the UN Peacekeeping mission and government partners to convene another forum that will bring law enforcement and judicial personnel to the table for local leaders to have further dialogue with.