MOGADISHU, Somalia, April 12, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            UN Women Somalia, in partnership with the Federal Ministry of Women and Human Rights Development (MoWHRD) and Ministries of Women, Jubaland and South West State launched two research studies focused on gender, climate and conflict analysis, and market assessments of micro-business opportunities at a high level event in Mogadishu on 30 March, 2022: “Gender, climate and conflict analysis in Somalia and assessment of opportunities for climate agriculture and livelihood opportunities for crisis-affected and at risk women in Somalia” and “Market assessment of microbusiness opportunities for women in IDP communities and their host communities in Jubaland and South West Somalia”.



Thanks to the Government of Japan-funded  “Women’s Leadership, Empowerment, Access and Protection” (LEAP) project, UN Women provided focused support to around 7,400 internally displaced (IDP) and other marginalized women in Kismayo and Baidoa through promoting opportunities for climate security, climate smart agriculture, livelihoods and business skills.

Attending were ministers and senior officials from the Federal Government of Somalia, Minister of Women and Human Rights Development, Hon. Hanifa Ibrahim Mohamed; Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General, UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, Dr Adam Abdelmoula; the Jubaland Minister of Gender and Family Affairs, Hon. Adar Ismail Abdullahi; Southwest Minister of Women, Family Affairs and Human Rights, Hon. Fahima Osman; representatives of ministries of agriculture in Jubaland and  South West State, representatives from FAO, CARE International, Ifrah Foundation and other civil society organizations (CSOs) and stakeholders.

Dr Adam Abdelmoula extended thanks for implementation of the LEAP project in humanitarian settings and appreciated the Government of Japan for funding this project and UN Women for support.

“Somalia is one of the most complex and longstanding countries with humanitarian crises in the world. With all the ongoing armed conflicts, insecurity, cyclical climatic shocks, locust invasion, political instability, socioeconomic vulnerability, and prevailing COVID-19 continued to fuel the humanitarian crisis and negatively impacted livelihoods, particularly for women and girls,” he said.

Minister of Women and Human Rights Development, Federal Government of Somalia Hanifa Ibrahim commended UN Women’s support and work towards gender equality and SDG5.
                                Women play a key role in agriculture either as farmers or sellers, for instance, 96 per cent of people selling agricultural products in the markets are women
                            

Minister Hanifa Ibrahim said they are working with UN Women and partners to support and campaign for the minimum 30 per cent quota for women in federal elections. The two studies focused on addressing barriers marginalized women and those with disabilities face in agriculture in Kismayo and Baidoa.

Dr Syed Sadiq, UN Women Somalia, Country Programme Manager extended appreciation to the government of Somalia, the CSOs, Community leaders and Consulting firms for the partnership in implementation of the Women Leadership, Empowerment, Access, and Protection (LEAP) Project and in promoting Women’s climate resilience and economic empowerment initiatives in Jubaland and Southwest states of Somalia with funding support from the government of Japan.

Minister of Women, Family Affairs, and Human Rights (MoWFAHR) Adar Ismail Abdullahi, said, “I am very glad to say that women have benefited from this project, provided practical support and skills to promote integrations and social cohesion among the targeted community, and improved livelihoods…”

She said Jubaland state elected seven women to Somalia’s federal parliament Somalia out of 27 seats in Kismayo. The ministry will also continue efforts to achieve the 30 per cent women quota in elections for remaining seats in Garbaharey.

Minister of Southwest State Ministry of Women Family Affairs and Human Rights Development Fahima Osman Omar said the South West State is the most populated and women are the most vulnerable due to insecurity and insurgency. It is the most fertile land in Somalia, but instability and insecurity have forced IDPs to flee their homes. Sixty-nine members of federal parliament were elected from Southwest of these 16 are women.

Ezana Kazza from Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) said, “Based on the recommendations provided in these studies, FAO is very keen to technically support the activities related to agriculture in coordination and collaboration with the Ministries of Women and UN Women. Women need to be equipped with the necessary tools and practices to ensure their adaptation to climate change issues.”

Mohamed Mursal, of the Ministry of Agriculture in Jubaland echoed this and said, “Women play a key role in agriculture either as farmers or sellers, for instance, 96 per cent of people selling agricultural products in the markets are women.”

Abdillahi Hassan, DG of Ministry of Agriculture, Southwest stated that more women are in need of humanitarian assistance due to the droughts in Southwest and other parts of the country and inflations and therefore the new phase of this project is expected to exclusively target women.