JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, April 20, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            At the occasion of the Trace Academia (TraceAcademia.com) launch, Trace is pleased to invite you to an online Press Conference on Thursday 21 April 2022 at 10:00 am London Time (GMT+1). The event will be live streamed in English and French.



In Africa, 300m young people, aged 16- to 34-year-old, are either unemployed or under-employed. This is a ticking time bomb for the Continent.



For the last 3 years, Trace, a leading multimedia platform that engages with 290m young people in Africa, has been investing, in partnership with a coalition of public and private partners (*), in finding a scalable solution to help fix this major issue. The result of this investment is Trace Academia: a mobile app that offers FREE courses and certificates dedicated to jobs, entrepreneurship, and soft skills. Trace Academia courses and certificates are created with the world’s best experts.

The Press Conference will be hosted by Mr. Olivier Laouchez, Trace’s Co-founder and Executive Chairman, along with Trace Academia’s partners and management team:




	His Excellency M. Aurélien Lechevallier – Ambassador of France to South Africa    
	Mrs. Aida Diarra – Senior Vice President & Group Country Manager Africa, Visa
	Mrs. Asma Ennaifer – Director of Diversity & Inclusion for Africa & Middle East, Orange
	Mrs. Virginie Fanny Dias-Tagnon – HR Director Africa, L’Oréal
	Mrs. Zanelle Dalglish – Director, Sustainable Development & Academy, Anglophone Africa, Schneider
	A representative of the World Bank
	Mrs Camille Agon – Managing Director, Trace Academia
	Mrs Maria Bourechache – Content Director, Trace Academia
	Mrs Prescillia Avenel – Chief Experience Officer, Trace
	Trace Academia beta test learners




To join the Press Conference, please click on Register to Trace Academia’s Official Launch Event - APO Group (APO-opa.com) (bit.ly/3uZGjhJ) and complete the registration form. You will then receive an email with your login details.



Please RSVP by Wednesday 20th April to receive access on due time.

(*) Some of the coalition members include, Google, L'Oréal, Canal +, SACEM, Visa, Schneider, Leroy Merlin, Bureau Veritas, Orange, Ford Foundation, Afreximbank, Accor-Kasada, UNESCO, the African Union, University of Johannesburg, Valued Citizens, TPG, Satya Capital, Trace, Bain & Co, BDD Software.