WESTERN BAHR-EL-GHAZAL, South Sudan, April 12, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Some 30 traditional leaders from three counties in Western Bahr el Ghazal – Wau, Jur river and Raja—came together at a two-day forum facilitated by the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS).



The main objective of the gathering: Harnessing the influence of these leaders to promote peaceful coexistence among communities.

The interactive workshop sought to promote understanding among local leaders and administrators on the Revitalized Peace Agreement, plus the key role played by community elders in settling disputes, mitigating conflict as well as their meaningful participation in ongoing peace processes.

Additional topics covered included feasible ways to integrate customary or traditional law with formal justice systems and the dividends that durable peace can bring to community members.

Free-and-frank discussions took place at the forum.

Akenda Gwakto, a women’s representative from Kangi payam [administrative division], brought up the issue of women’s representation in local justice mechanisms.
                                Our main job here is to ensure the safety and security of civilians and we support all efforts to build a durable peace from the ground up
                            

“Women and girls are disproportionately affected by conflict across South Sudan,” said Ms. Gwakto. “Through this forum I have learned that we have recourse to justice for our specific issues. I plan to return to Kangi and start raising awareness among the women in my community about the numerous provisions contained within our customary laws that protect and safeguard women’s rights,” she added with a smile.

For Emilio Fada, Director General, state Ministry of Local Government and Law Enforcement, knowledge of legal rights is an important element in peacebuilding.

“A sustained peace begins at the local level and that is where community leaders, who are in direct contact with communities on the ground, have a vital role to play by promoting dialogue and peaceful coexistence,” stated Minister Fada. “A critical aspect of peacebuilding at the grassroots is ensuring citizens have access to justice mechanisms and know their legal rights,” he continued.

An important takeaway from the event: At times, local-level justice mechanisms have not been able to counter cyclical disputes among communities because many people remain ignorant about the legal resources available to them. 

Participants agreed that this joint forum by the UN Peacekeeping mission’s Civil Affairs Division and civil society entity, Community Empowerment for Progress Organization (CEPO), with support from the Ministry of Local Government and Law Enforcement, has resulted in educating leaders on important rule of law and justice issues, which now can be trickled down to communities.

For his part, Abdulbagi Ibishomi, Civil Affairs Officer at the UNMISS Wau Field office, said such interactions are rewarding and necessary.

“Our main job here is to ensure the safety and security of civilians and we support all efforts to build a durable peace from the ground up,” said Mr. Ibishomi.

“Part of our peacebuilding efforts involve building capacities among community members themselves so that they can take ownership of peace and trust building initiatives. Social cohesion, after all, begins at the grassroots and we, as a mission, are committed to helping people across Western Bahr El Ghazal, and indeed all of South Sudan, shape a prosperous future for themselves."