CAPE TOWN, South Africa, April 20, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Environmental, social and governance (ESG) imperatives have taken a prominent role in decision-making across the African mining sector, with intensified awareness from all stakeholders. The 2022 Investing in African Mining Indaba (www.MiningIndaba.com) will explore what ESG means in practice for Africa’s mining operators, communities and jurisdictions.



As economies emerge from the global pandemic and countries grapple with climate change, ESG continues to play a core role in mining across Africa with investors, funders and consumers placing greater trust in organisations that show a long-term interest in these standards.

Despite the upside potential on a continent endowed with an abundance of mineral wealth, the mining and minerals sector has also faced ESG risks with concerns around safety and security, climate change, community relations and environmental impact. Therefore, it has become an even greater imperative for the sector to get the implementation of these ESG strategies and policies right to create meaningful change.
                                ESG will not be just a buzzword at the conference but rather provide the opportunity for mining companies to consider implementing meaningful strategies and policies
                            

ESG will not be just a buzzword at the conference but rather provide the opportunity for mining companies to consider implementing meaningful strategies and policies as a central part of doing business to not only drive investment into mining across the continent but to ensure a competitive, sustainable and accountable sector.

This year’s Mining Indaba will make the ESG topic a mainstage focus area under this year’s overarching theme, “Evolution of African Mining: Investing in the Energy Transition, ESG and the Economies”. The programme will explore and share industry lessons on the progress made in mining's ESG-focused investment environment, unpack the role of technology and examine the risks, uncertainties, and opportunities post-COP26.

Speakers and industry representatives, including International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM) CEO, Rohitesh Dhawan; CEO-Designate & MD Minerals at Exxaro Resources, Dr. Nombasa Tsengwa; and EITI Africa Director, Bady Baldé, will wholistically tackle ESG issues and explore the energy transition which demands ESG rigour and provides the potential to grow our economies. Other important industry bodies sending their key executives focused on building ESG frameworks will include the Fair Cobalt Alliance, the Development Partner Institute, and the Natural Resource Governance Institute.

Key ESG-related highlights on the on the 2022 Mining Indaba agenda: 


	Investor Panel: ESG Investing - Emerging from the Pandemic into a Better World?
	Role of Technology in ESG-Centered Mining
	Panel: What does ESG mean when applied to Africa's Mining Communities?
	Panel: Building Strong & Sustainable Accountability Frameworks
	Managing ESG Risks in the African Context
	Panel Discussion: Turning ESG Inwards




For more information or to register your place, please visit www.MiningIndaba.com