NAIROBI, Kenya, April 29, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Kenya and the Czech Republic have pledged to enhance their bilateral relations in an effort to improve health outcomes in the two countries.



A meeting between health Cabinet secretary Mutahi Kagwe and Czech ambassador Martin Klepetko resolved to fast-track the signing of a memorandum of understanding on health collaboration.

According to the health CS, the collaboration will include workforce exchange, capacity building as well as medical speciality training.
                                Our interest in training is specialised training especially for surgeons and the different specialties in oncology
                            

“Our interest in training is specialised training especially for surgeons and the different specialties in oncology. We are therefore very keen to advance these discussions to bring this to reality” said the health CS.

He said the country has appreciated the benefits of exchange programmes where respective health workers are exposed to different environments with encouraging results like the case with the current arrangement between Kenya and Cuba.

“The idea of exchange program is very welcome to us. The idea for me works best so that your doctors can get exposed to tropical medicine as well due to geographical differences” observed the health CS. “On equipment, we are keen on technology that is at par and highest available at the time in the source country. We do not want hand me down equipment.” Added Kagwe.

As part of further cementing bilateral ties, the CS said Kenya will honour an invitation by Czech to attend an international conference set for next month where ten African countries have been invited.

Ambassador Klepetko says his country is ready to share its experiences with Kenya besides offering technical and financial support to enhance ongoing reforms within the sector. He said Czech is looking to revive the medical humanitarian programme in Kenya focusing on proviso of medical care and assistance for vulnerable groups of persons in countries affected by migration or burdened by a large number of refugees.