VICTORIA, Seychelles, April 16, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            President Wavel Ramkalawan was the guest of honour at the 2021 graduation ceremony for students who successfully completed their studies at the Seychelles Institute of Technology (SIT). The event was held at the International Conference Centre Seychelles (ICCS) on Friday afternoon.



Immanuel Madeleine from the National Diploma in Motor Vehicle Engineering clinched the President’s Cup. Mr. Madeleine has performed well academically, and he has shown to be exemplary in behaviour as well as in attendance. He has also been an active participant in extra-curricular activities.

During the ceremony, over 173 students received their certificates, after having completed their respective programmes of study at Certificate, Advanced Certificate, and Diploma levels. Among which, 21 graduates received the Best Performer Awards in their respective programmes.
                                We at SIT believe that the training you have received over the past years has prepared you all to start a life that is yours to lead
                            

In his address, the Director of the Seychelles Institute of Technology, Mr. Hubert Barbé, congratulated the graduates for completing such a major milestone. He underlined that learning a skill at SIT requires that the learner shows interest, is motivated and wants to learn. With it, the learners need to demonstrate a sense of discipline with a positive attitude.

“We at SIT believe that the training you have received over the past years has prepared you all to start a life that is yours to lead. Also worth noting is that your progress in life will very much depend on what you are going to learn after you leave SIT rather than what you already know. So my dear graduates, the journey to success awaits you with many more challenges. Knowing who is will help you when you want to seek things you want in life,” said Mr. Barbe.

The Outstanding Performers awards at Certificate and Advanced Certificate levels, went to Garelle Forte for the Certificate level is from the Certificate in Painting and Decorating, Julio Joubert and Paolo Evenor for the Advanced Certificate in Plumbing and Advanced Certificate in Mechanical Engineering.

The ceremony concluded with a vote of thanks on behalf of all graduates by Ms. Mara Istrale.

Other than President Ramkalawan, guests at the ceremony included the Minister for Education, Dr. Justin Valentin, Minister for Employment and Social Affairs, Mrs. Patricia Francourt, Principal Secretaries, Chairperson, and Members of the SIT Board, the graduate’s relatives, and SIT Management and Staff.