LAGOS, Nigeria, January 5, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Sport fans across Nigerians and the whole of Africa are in for a great time as Africa’s first continental Free-To-Air (FTA) sports channel, Afrosport TV (Afrosport.TV), continues to roll out its operations on Free Digital Terrestrial Television Network. Afrosport TV is a 24-hour free continent-wide sports channel in Nigeria, delivering top notch content in sports that are hitherto found only on Pay TV channels. 



To support the cause and ensure Nigerians’ unrestricted access to great sports content, Flutterwave, leading payment technology company in Africa has pledged its support for Afrosport TV by taking up the sponsorship of the AFCON 2021 broadcast. The sponsorship would facilitate the world class delivery of the AFCON 2021 on free-to-air TVs in Nigeria as well as on the African Union of Broadcasters’(AUB) network across the continent.
                                The AFCON 2021, which kicks off on 9 January 2022, is biggest continental football extravaganza that will be broadcasted to the widest possible audience across Nigeria and Africa
                            

The AFCON 2021, which kicks off on 9 January 2022, is the biggest continental football extravaganza that will be broadcasted to the widest possible audience across Nigeria and Africa. All of the 52 matches will be transmitted on a tripod of Free-to-air TV networks such as the NTA Network Service, the Broadcasting Organization of Nigeria’s (BON) Network of selected members TV Stations plus Afrosport TV on the National Broadcasting Commission’s (NBC) digital platform – Free TV.   

Explaining the rationale behind the sponsorship deal, CEO and Founder Flutterwave, Mr. Olugbenga GB Agboola said, “The idea of making quality sports content available and accessible to every Nigerian for free resonates with the ideal of making life easy, which is one of the reasons why we founded Flutterwave.”.

“We have shown our passion for African entertainment, technology and now sports. We are for everything that will unite Africa and create endless possibilities for the continent. If getting free access to sports, which represents our passion as Africans and fosters our unity, is what makes life easy and grows our unity as a continent, we will surely be standing tall”, Agboola concluded. He also assured Africans everywhere that Flutterwave will always seek to connect to Nigerians on platforms that matter most.

Lauding the sponsorship deal, the Co-Founder of Afrosport TV, Mr. Andy Howes said “Flutterwave is seeking to be an enabler at the heart of African commerce and community life, and their support as a Broadcast Sponsor is further evidence of the genuineness of their commitment. Sponsorship is the life-blood of FTA TV, and it is only by the support of companies such as Flutterwave that millions of fans are able to participate in the enjoyment of an event like the African Nations Cup through their TV sets”.