KHARTOUM, Somalia, January 6, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Ethiopia: OCHA says that the situation in the northern part of the country remains unpredictable and volatile.  



In Tigray, the humanitarian situation continues to deteriorate, with tensions restricting the movement of humanitarian supplies along the only available route (Semera-Abala-Mekelle). No trucks carrying humanitarian supplies have been able to enter Tigray since 15 December. 

Since 12 July, only 1,338 trucks have entered Tigray, less than 12 per cent of the trucks needed. One hundred trucks are needed daily to meet the scale and scope of needs. 

As of 3 January, partners distributing food in Tigray have only around 10,000 litres of fuel left. However, at least 60,000 liters of fuel are needed to dispatch the limited food supplies (around 4,000 metric tons) that are currently available in Mekelle. 

Several UN and non-governmental organizations will be forced to cease operations if humanitarian supplies, fuel and cash are not delivered to Tigray soon.
                                The UN urgently calls on all parties to allow unimpeded and sustained access to people in Tigray, Amhara and Afar
                            

New displacements continue to be reported, including from Afar and Amhara regions and the Western Zone of Tigray. Spontaneous and organized IDP returns are also ongoing in all three regions. There are significant needs in the areas of return, including food, water, sanitation and shelter. Humanitarian partners continue to work with authorities to ensure that the returns are well planned, voluntary and dignified and that returnees have adequate support.

Humanitarian organizations continue to provide critical assistance, despite challenges. In Amhara, more than 33,000 people received shelter and non-food items during the past week, bringing the total number assisted to 586,000 people. Food distribution continues in Afar, Amhara and Tigray, but remains well below the level required.

The UN urgently calls on all parties to allow unimpeded and sustained access to people in Tigray, Amhara and Afar.

Yemen: OCHA warns that funding shortages are continuing to impact the humanitarian operation in Yemen.

The 2021 Humanitarian Response Plan received 58 per cent of its funding requirements, leaving a US$1.6 billion gap. 

As a result, aid agencies are being forced to scale down and close vital programmes. As we reported back in December, emergency food assistance is being reduced for 8 million people across the country. Reproductive health services, water, protection and other programmes are also scaling back.

The UN urges donors to sustain – and where possible increase – their funding to the humanitarian response in Yemen, which represents a lifeline to 16 million people. In 2022, the UN will also be working closely with all stakeholders to promote a stronger economy in Yemen, as economic collapse is the main driver of humanitarian needs.