PORT LOUIS, Mauritius, January 21, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The cheques remitted to the two local film makers, namely Messrs Sada Rajiah and Pravesh Das Nunkoo, amounting to Rs 250,000 and Rs 150,000 respectively, are a way to reward them for their efforts and contribution to the Mauritian film industry.


                                It is Government’s responsibility to ensure that the local and international markets provide more opportunities for Mauritian film makers
                            

The Minister of Arts and Cultural Heritage, Mr Avinash Teeluck, made this statement, today, during an official remittance of cheques ceremony, held at the seat of his Ministry in Port Louis. Other personalities were also present on this occasion.

Minister Teeluck recalled that Mr Rajiah received some 40 awards at international level for the film ‘Three Wise Men’, while Mr Nunkoo’s film, ‘The Truth – The Evolution of Gandhi’, was recently rewarded at the last Jaipur International Film Festival. Government, he underscored, is proud that local film makers’ productions are recognised and rewarded at international festivals.

He emphasised that the Ministry of Arts and Cultural Heritage must therefore ensure that local film makers are provided with the necessary encouragement and guidance so that they can surpass themselves. Local productions which are internationally recognised, he stated, represent a great potential for the sector. As such, it is Government’s responsibility, in addition to all the schemes already available, to ensure that the local and international markets provide more opportunities for Mauritian film makers, he added.

Furthermore, Minister Teeluck observed that there is a need to come forward with a strategy so as to redefine the conditions under which local film makers are provided support from the Ministry of Arts and Cultural Heritage as well as other organisations such as the Mauritius Film Development Corporation. According to him, local productions have the potential to tap international markets and thus, redefining the conditions to benefit from grants and available schemes will encourage the production of local films and documentaries which can eventually garner recognition abroad.