WASHINGTON D.C., United States of America, January 4, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The World Bank Group today announced the 24-month sanction of France-based ADP International S.A. (formerly ADP Management), an airport developer, operator, and manager, and a subsidiary of Aéroports de Paris S.A., in connection with collusive practices as part of the Airports Madagascar Project and fraudulent practices as part of the Zagreb Airport Project. The sanction consists of a 12-month debarment followed by a 12-month conditional non-debarment.



The sanction stems from an investigation that was conducted by the World Bank Group’s Integrity Vice Presidency and highlights the institution’s efforts to promote high integrity standards in International Finance Corporation (IFC)-financed projects. The matter was resolved through settlement agreements that were negotiated with the multiple companies involved. The settlements demonstrate how such agreements, and Bank Group sanctions in general, can be used to help promote better business practices by companies engaged in private sector development projects.

The 12-month debarment makes ADP International S.A., and its sanctioned subsidiaries—ADP Ingénierie, ADP Airport Services, ADP do Brasil Participações, ADP International Americas LLC, ADPM Mauritius, Aéroports de Paris Management 3, Airport International Group, Airport Management Company, Airport Management Services, and Jordan Airport Management—ineligible to participate in projects and operations financed by institutions of the World Bank Group. It is part of a settlement agreement under which the company acknowledges responsibility for the underlying sanctionable practices and agrees to meet specified conditions for release from debarment.
                                The matter was resolved through settlement agreements that were negotiated with the multiple companies involved
                            

At the end of the initial debarment period, and provided that certain conditions set out in the settlement agreement are met, the sanction of ADP International S.A. will become a conditional non-debarment. During this time, ADP International S.A. will be eligible to participate in projects and operations financed by institutions of the World Bank Group as long as it complies with its obligations under the settlement agreement. However, if the World Bank Group Integrity Compliance Officer determines that the company fails to meet the specified conditions at the end of the debarment period, it will remain ineligible to participate in World Bank Group projects and operations until the conditions for release set out in the settlement agreement are met.

The Airports Madagascar Project, which is supported by IFC, provides partial financing for the design and development of the expansion and renovation works of the two main airports in Madagascar: the Ivato International Airport and the Fascene Airport. According to the facts of the case, ADP International S.A. engaged in collusive practices by attending improper meetings with government officials between February 4, 2015 and May 4, 2015, during the tender for the 28-year contract for the concession to run the airports.

The Zagreb Airport Project, which is also supported by IFC, provides partial financing for a 30-year concession contract for the design, construction works, operation, and maintenance of a new terminal within the Zagreb International Airport. According to the facts of the case, ADP International S.A. engaged in fraudulent practices by failing to disclose to IFC that fees paid by he company, between June 10, 2011 and March 12, 2014, to a retained agent, in connection with the concession contract, were partially transferred to a non-contracted consultant.

The settlement agreement provides for a reduced period of debarment in light of the company’s cooperation and voluntary remedial actions. As a condition for release from sanction under the terms of the settlement agreement, ADP International S.A., has committed to adapt its group-wide integrity compliance program to reflect the principles set out in the World Bank Group Integrity Compliance Guidelines, and has agreed to implement and maintain the program as part of its business operations going forward, including at its sanctioned subsidiaries.

ADP International S.A. has also committed to continue to fully cooperate with the World Bank Group Integrity Vice Presidency.