CAPE TOWN, South Africa, January 7, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            With the festive season in the rear-view mirror, the City appeals to residents to start the new year with a vaccination, if they have not done so already, or a booster shot, if they are eligible.



The City of Cape Town is introducing vaccination services at four additional sites this week.

The Non-Profit Organisation, Khethimpilo will host pop-up vaccination sites on a rotational basis at the following Community Day Centres between 09:00 and 15:00:


	Luvuyo CDC in Khayelitsha on Mondays and Tuesdays
	Gordon’s Bay CDC on Wednesdays
	Dr. Ivan Tomms CDC on Thursdays
	Town Two CDC in Khayelitsha on Fridays



                                It is a good time to ensure that your child’s general vaccinations too are up to date
                            

The City already has 12 fixed vaccination sites that are augmented by the area-based mobile vaccination vans, introduced in August last year.

‘We are making more resources available to reach both the unvaccinated population, but also provide ease of access to persons who are now eligible for their booster doses. A lot of information is doing the rounds about vaccinations, and booster shots, and it is important that our residents take a moment to familiarise themselves with all of the new developments over the past month, and get in line for their vaccinations, or booster shots as the case might be,’ said Mayoral Committee Member for Community Services and Health, Councillor Patricia Van der Ross.

Just before Christmas, the National Health Department announced that booster vaccine doses have been approved for both Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson.

Any person who has had their two doses of the Pfizer vaccine, should get a booster dose six months after their second dose was administered.

Any person who received a Johnson & Johnson vaccine, which is a single dose, is eligible for a booster dose two months later.

The public is reminded that children between the ages of 12 and 17 are also eligible for a single dose of the Pfizer vaccine.

‘With the new school year just weeks away, now is a good time to get your child vaccinated. The vaccines are safe, but also easily administered. In fact, it is a good time to ensure that your child’s general vaccinations too are up to date.

‘There is no need to register beforehand; simply visit any of the vaccination sites and take your identity document, passport, refugee permit or asylum seeker permit along. If you do not have these documents, the staff at the vaccination sites will register and vaccinate you,’ added Councillor Van der Ross.