RABAT, Morocco, January 25, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The Minister of Foreign Affairs, African Cooperation and Moroccan Expatriates, Mr. Nasser Bourita, held talks, on January 25, by videoconference with the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of the Kingdom of Cambodia, Mr. Prak Sokhonn.
                                Mr. Bourita reaffirmed Morocco's support for Cambodia's application to obtain Observer Status within the Organization of Islamic Cooperation
                            



During these talks, the two ministers agreed to strengthen bilateral relations through the upcoming 3rd session of Political Consultations and the next Joint Commission, and by giving impetus to trade ties to raise them to a level that reflects the excellent political relations between the two kingdoms.

Mr. Bourita and Mr. Sokhonn discussed the areas that will be the subject of further cooperation, including industry, tourism, textiles and training, stressing the importance of sharing experiences.
The two ministers also discussed new areas of cooperation in the regional framework, in particular the strengthening of ties between Morocco and the Southeast Asian sub-region.

Mr. Bourita recalled, in this regard, that Morocco is the first Arab and African country to obtain the status of Observer Member of the ASEAN Inter-Parliamentary Assembly (AIPA) and Associate Member in 2021 with the integration of the Southeast Asian Ministers of Education Organization (SEAMEO).

Morocco also signed, in 2016, a Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), of which Cambodia currently holds the presidency.

With regard to the Moroccan Sahara, the two ministers welcomed the constructive position of the Kingdom of Cambodia which broke its relations with the so-called "Sadr" and which has no link with this fictitious entity.

Cambodia reiterated, on this occasion, its support for the efforts of the United Nations and the resolutions of the Security Council relating to the regional dispute over the Moroccan Sahara.

At the multilateral level, Mr. Bourita and Mr. Sokhonn welcomed coordination between the two countries in international fora and pledged to continue this cooperation and support their respective candidacies.

Mr. Bourita reaffirmed Morocco's support for Cambodia's application to obtain Observer Status within the Organization of Islamic Cooperation.

At the end of these talks, Mr. Bourita renewed the invitation extended to Mr. Sokhonn to reschedule his visit to Morocco initially planned in April 2020 before being postponed due to the health situation.