ABU DHABI, United Arab Emirates, January 15, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Sheikh Shakhbout bin Nahyan bin Mubarak Al Nahyan, Minister of State, headed the UAE’s delegation participating in the World Youth Forum, held under the theme "Back Together", in Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt.



Sheikh Shakhbout said Egypt’s hosting of the fourth World Youth Forum confirms the significant attention given by the Egyptian leadership to youth, as it believes in their capabilities in dealing with global challenges, noting that the forum is a platform for dialogue for youth from around the world.

He also lauded the historical relations between the UAE and Egypt, which are supported by their leaderships’ keenness to serve their mutual interests.
                                We have launched over 30 initiatives and platforms to encourage youth participation, engagement and empowerment
                            

He expressed his happiness at participating in the conference and added that Egypt is a hub for cultural convergence and a beacon of peace and security. He said that the forum underscores Egypt's ability to organise international conferences amidst the COVID-19 pandemic.

Shamma bint Suhail Al Mazrouei, Minister of State for Youth Affairs, said the majority of youth are looking forward to the future. The current global pandemic has proven that the community can achieve development, solidarity, cooperation and partnerships in the face of challenges and crises, she explained.

During the forum’s inauguration ceremony, Al Mazrouei said, "During the pandemic, we became aware of how everything can be changed, and of the infinite ways we can work, learn, and steer the global economy."

She also highlighted the Emirati model of youth empowerment and stressed that the UAE aims to institutionalise youth empowerment programmes and initiatives, including establishing the Emirates Youth Councils.

"We have launched over 30 initiatives and platforms to encourage youth participation, engagement and empowerment. We have also set a clear strategy aimed at investing in youth. Three months ago, the UAE Cabinet approved the first youth empowerment index in the world," she added.

Egypt held the World Youth Forum for the first time in 2017, featuring young talent and leaders from around the world, as well as international leaders and influential figures also attended the event.