NEW YORK, United States of America, January 4, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Globally acclaimed Dotmount Communications Group, publishers of Pleasures Magazine (PleasuresMagazine.com.ng) today announced its acquisition of Gannett Co.Inc’s shares, a highly respected diversified news and media information company that operates in broadcasting, publishing, and digital, in a move expected to enhance the Dotmount Communications’s global reach with comprehensive integrated services for a strong stable of clients and projects.



Gannett (GCI) is a diversified news and media information company that operates in broadcasting, publishing, and digital. The most famous brand the company owns is USA Today. Its broadcasting segment runs 43 TV stations; its publishing segment provides daily content through more than 80 daily publications and more than 400 non-daily local publications; and its digital segment covers content through digital platforms, digital marketing services, and an online HR software solution.
                                The parent company of Pleasures Magazine, Dotmount Communications Group has made an extraordinary impact in the ever-evolving world of media and digital marketing
                            

“In just ten years of existence, the parent company of Pleasures Magazine, Dotmount Communications Group has made an extraordinary impact in the ever-evolving world of media and digital marketing -- establishing itself as an emerging dominant player in the field, we are thrilled with this addition to our growing roster of media platforms,” says Adedotun Babatunde Olaoluwa, President and Executive Chairman of Dotmount Communications Group. 

“We respect and recognize that chairman Mike Reed has been at the forefront of thought leadership about the convergence of media platforms – and his team’s abilities will be great assets for our firm.”

Dotmount’s new acquisition comes on the heels of a string of acquisitions over the past two years. Since fall 2019, the company has snapped up shares from major media companies.

Dotmount Communications Group, an international strategic communications consultancy that uses an in-depth understanding of public, commercial and political drivers to provide insightful strategic counsel and meet complex communications challenges.

The group has over the years supported government, corporate and private entities, delivering sophisticated communications programmes that shape awareness, guide opinion and enhance understanding on a national, regional and international basis.