PORT LOUIS, Mauritius, January 28, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The Consultant in Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Dr Sulleman Moreea, called on the Prime Minister, Mr Pravind Kumar Jugnauth, this afternoon, at the New Treasury Building, in Port-Louis, with a view to brief the latter on the progress made regarding the treatment of Hepatitis C in Mauritius.


                                The Prime Minister and the Minister of Health and Wellness have expressed their wish to set up a bowel cancer screening programme in the country
                            

In a statement following the meeting, Dr Moreea highlighted that he was currently working in collaboration with the Ministry of Health and Wellness for the elimination of Hepatitis C in Mauritius. He recalled that Mauritius received a donation of medication for Hepatitis C treatment from Gilead Sciences, Inc., an American biopharmaceutical company, some 18 months ago, and so far, some 1,500 Hepatitis C patients have been treated.

According to Consultant Moreea, discussions also focussed on the way forward for Mauritius to possibly be the first country in Africa to completely eliminate Hepatitis C. He underscored that the World Health Organisation had set the target of year 2030 for the elimination of Hepatitis C but, with the efforts of the Ministry of Health and Wellness and of several doctors, the target could be achieved well before year 2030 in Mauritius.

On another note, he indicated that the number of people with colon cancer was on the rise in Mauritius. “As such, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health and Wellness have expressed their wish to set up a bowel cancer screening programme in the country”, he stated. “This programme,” he added, “will be launched in the next 12 months.”

Dr Sulleman Moreea became a Consultant in Gastroenterology and Hepatology at Bradford Teaching Hospitals, in the United Kingdom, in 2004. During his spare time, he has also helped to establish the first endoscopy units in St Lucia and Mauritius. He is currently working closely with the Mauritian Ministry of Health and Wellness to extend endoscopy services and for the training of doctors across the island.