PORT LOUIS, Mauritius, January 7, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Ten Mauritian delegates as well as two supervisors from the Ministry of Youth Empowerment, Sports and Recreation, selected for the Youth Exchange Programme scheduled in Delhi, India, from 15 January to 03 February 2022, were presented, this afternoon, during an official ceremony organised at the Côte d’Or National Sports Complex.



In the context of the 75th Independence Anniversary of India, a Youth Exchange Programme is being organised and India has invited delegates from 25 friendly countries to participate in this event. The Youth Exchange Programme will be hosted by the National Cadet Corps of India.

The Minister of Land Transport and Light Rail, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Regional Integration and International Trade, Mr Alan Ganoo; the Minister of Youth Empowerment, Sports and Recreation, Mr Stephan Toussaint; the High Commissioner of India to Mauritius, Mrs K. Nandini Singla, and other personalities were present at the event.

In his address, Minister Toussaint highlighted that all necessary arrangements have been completed to ensure that the young Mauritian delegates can make the most of their visit in India. He commended the Indian High Commissioner as well as the Government of India for having extended the invitation to Mauritian youth to participate in the Exchange Programme.
                                This invitation of the Mauritian youth delegation to India bears testimony of the strong relationship between the two countries
                            

Addressing the youth, he reassured that their experience in India will definitely enable them to be more mature once they return to Mauritius and urged them to enjoy their visit. He also expressed his wish for enhanced collaboration between Mauritius and India in the field of sports.

As for Minister Ganoo, he underlined that delegates will participate in the Republic Day Camp 2022, together with youth from several other countries. He also expressed the wish that the Mauritian delegates enjoy their stay in India adding that they will be able to visit several places and interact with other participants as well as with the local people.

Minister Ganoo dwelt on the progress made by India since its independence and commended the Government of India for its support in the implementation of the Metro Express Project and in the procurement COVID-19 vaccines in difficult times, amongst others. According to him, this invitation of the Mauritian youth delegation to India bears testimony of the strong relationship between the two countries.

For her part, the Indian High Commissioner recalled that she was also part of the National Cadet Corps of India. The Corps, she indicated, has some 1,1 million Cadets and each year, the best Cadets from each State of India compete in several disciplines for the Prime Minister’s medal.

Mrs Singla provided details about her personal experience in the National Cadet Corps and expressed her wish for the 10 delegates to make the most of the Exchange Programme so as to come back to Mauritius with lifelong bonds. These bonds, she added, will contribute to strengthen friendship ties between the two countries. She further stated that this is the first time that delegates from Mauritius have been invited to the Youth Exchange Programme.

On this occasion, materials were handed over to the delegates, and the National Dress to be worn by delegates as well as sports wear were presented.

It is recalled that some 250 youth participated in a quiz competition, out of which 20 were preselected and interviewed. Following the interview, 10 youth were nominated to participate in the Youth Exchange Programme.