CAPE TOWN, South Africa, January 24, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The National Council of Provinces (NCOP) will hold a training workshop for permanent delegates to the House on the application of the new Rules from Tuesday to Thursday. The House recently concluded a set of new rules to regulate its business and strengthen the fulfilment of its constitutional functions.



Tuesday's session will focus on the consequence of amending the rules of the NCOP and regulations relating to the appointment and functions of whips.

Wednesday's session will deal with a practical overview of the rules governing the practices and processes of Committees. The workshop will also consider the role of Whippery in political coordination of the business of the NCOP and the effective coordination between Provincial Delegation and legislatures.
                                Tuesday's session will focus on the consequence of amending the rules of the NCOP and regulations relating to the appointment and functions of whips
                            

Thursday, the last day of the workshop, will cover the capacity development and support systems for Members of Parliament and the State of the Nation Address arrangements.

The Portfolio Committee on Mineral Resources and Energy will continue its public hearings from Tuesday in Northern Cape and Free State provinces on the Gas Amendment Bill [B9-2021].

The Committee has already conducted hearings in Mpumalanga, Gauteng, KwaZulu-Natal, Eastern Cape and Western Cape provinces.

The Bill aims to amend the Gas Act of 2001 to provide, among other things, promotion of the orderly development of the gas industry and provide for new products and changing technologies in the gas sector.

The Northern Cape leg will take place in Khathu on Tuesday and Kimberley the next day, on Wednesday. The Committee will proceed to the Free State province on Friday in Bloemfontein and Sasolburg on Saturday.

Only one Committee meeting of the Portfolio Committee on Defence and Military Veterans is scheduled for Wednesday at 10:00. The Committee will receive a presentation from the Department of Defence on findings of the Ministerial Task Team on the procurement of Hebron medication from Cuba.