PORT LOUIS, Mauritius, January 17, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The National Empowerment Foundation (NEF), operating under the aegis of the Ministry of Social Integration, Social Security and National Solidarity, organised, today, at its headquarters in Port-Louis, a Ceremony of Handing Over of Keys for 42 families, eligible under the Social Register of Mauritius (SRM).



The Minister of Social Integration, Social Security and National Solidarity, Mrs Fazila Jeewa-Daureeawoo; the Chairman of the NEF, Dr Mohamud Raffick Sorefan; and other personalities were present at the event.
                                Minister Jeewa-Daureeawoo highlighted that the objectives of the NEF Schemes were to provide decent housing units to eligible vulnerable families
                            

Out of the 42 families, 14 are beneficiaries of the Fully Concrete Housing (FCH) scheme where the NEF constructs housing unit of up to 50 m2 for families living in absolute poverty and are owners of a plot of land but do not have the means to build a housing unit. The remaining 28 families benefited from the 10% National Housing Development Company Ltd (NHDC Ltd) scheme. This initiative aims at promoting social integration within the community by allotting 10% of all new housing units constructed by the NHDC for families on the SRM who are not land owners. It is noted that beneficiaries under both schemes are required to contribute to around 20% of the project cost.

In her address, Minister Jeewa-Daureeawoo highlighted that the objectives of the NEF Schemes were to provide decent housing units to eligible vulnerable families so that they can live with dignity and improve their living conditions as well as provide a safe, secure and peaceful environment to their children. She underscored the necessity for beneficiaries to put in more efforts, sacrifice, discipline and determination to work towards a better future for themselves and their children.

Speaking on the Marshall Plan and its poverty alleviation and empowerment programmes, the Minister stressed that Government’s aim was to ensure that vulnerable families stand on their own two feet. She also talked of the extension of the eligibility criteria of families on the SRM to those earning Rs 10,500 monthly, compared to Rs 9,520 previously. She indicated that there are currently 5,961 families on the SRM, including 1,970 families in Rodrigues.

In addition, Mrs Jeewa-Daureeawoo recalled the establishment of the National Database for Vulnerable Groups, with the objective of providing support to families whose monthly income was between Rs 10,501 and Rs 14,000. She invited vulnerable groups to register with the SRM and the database to avail of all facilities and support provided by Government.