RIGA, Latvia, January 11, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            On 10 January 2022, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Andris Pelšs, welcomed accreditation visits from the Ambassador of the Dominican Republic, Francisco Alberto Caraballo, the Ambassador of the Republic of Rwanda, Olivier Jean Patrick Nduhungirehe, and the Ambassador of the Arab Republic of Egypt, Ahmed Adel Sobhy Ahmed. The State Secretary congratulated the Ambassadors on their accreditation to Latvia and invited them to make use of the opportunities for promoting bilateral relations with Latvia.


                                As he met with the Ambassador of Egypt, the State Secretary commended the active political dialogue and expressed satisfaction with the good relations between the two countries
                            

In a meeting with the Dominican Ambassador, Andris Pelšs voiced interest in continued work on the signing of bilateral agreements and advancing cooperation in the smart technologies sector. The State Secretary presented Latvia’s initiatives in the United Nations and focused on promoting further cooperation in this organisation and others. Francisco Alberto Caraballo is the first Ambassador of the Dominican Republic to Latvia. The Ambassador resides in Berlin.  Diplomatic relation with the Republic of Dominican were established on 15 August 2001.

In a conversation with the Ambassador of Rwanda, Andris Pelšs underlined the need for strengthening political dialogue and economic cooperation as well as expanding the legal framework. The Ambassador expressed desire to explore Latvia’s experience in the field of information and communication technologies and he welcomed the interest from Latvian businesses. Cooperation between the two countries in the United Nations and other organisations was also discussed. The Ambassador resides in the Hague. Diplomatic relation with Rwanda were established on 10 April 2007.

As he met with the Ambassador of Egypt, the State Secretary commended the active political dialogue and expressed satisfaction with the good relations between the two countries. Andris Pelšs reaffirmed that Latvia was prepared to expand contacts in education, science and economy, especially in the information and communication technology sector, as well as to proceed with cooperation in timber and food processing industries. Promotion of cooperation in international organisations was also discussed. The officials noted that this 23 January would see 30 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations. The Embassy of Latvia has been operating in Egypt since 2007, with Ilmārs Breidaks as current Ambassador. The Egyptian Ambassador resides in Stockholm.