JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, February 1, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Centurion International AG has listed on the Open Market of the Düsseldorf Stock Exchange, marking a historic moment for the firm as it moves to enhance international investment and collaboration within Africa’s diverse economy. The pan-African energy advisory and legal services company provides a gateway for investors to participate in Africa’s development, with the listing serving to facilitate new business opportunities between Germany and Africa, while enhancing transparent corporate governance for the firm’s global activities.



Representing one of Africa’s top legal firms, Centurion International AG is committed to Africa’s economic development. The firm’s services range from energy and natural resources to infrastructure, transportation and logistics to telecommunication, media and technology, while covering a myriad of fields including corporate and commercial, regulatory and compliance, tax and investments services, among many others. Primarily, the firm serves as a top facilitator in Africa’s energy expansion, working closely with clients to accelerate the successful implementation of energy projects across the continent.

In addition to working with many energy companies globally, Centurion International AG advises many German firms including Lufthansa and Deutsche Post DHL Group. With the listing, Centurion’s client portfolio is expected to expand significantly while enabling broader access to a large number of ESG compliant co-investment deals not only across gas, but in hydrogen, infrastructure and renewables. Now, the company can extend its network, building an African energy mix and driving the energy transition.
                                The firm serves as a top facilitator in Africa’s energy expansion, working closely with clients to accelerate the successful implementation of energy projects across the continent
                            

"By listing our shares on the Düsseldorf Stock Exchange, we wish to provide a gateway for investors to participate in Africa's vast economic upside potential. Further, we seek to tap into German capital markets to finance the acquisition of small and medium-sized advisory firms, independent of our current share price, and thus, increase earnings per share for our investors," states NJ Ayuk, CEO of Centurion Law Group.

Centurion International AG’s lawyer on demand model offers clients both a modernized and tailor-made legal experience. The listing on the Düsseldorf Stock Exchange will not only enable an expansion of these services to German markets but will improve the firm’s ability to use a private equity approach in acquiring and investing in law firms – specifically, those focused on Centurion’s core strategy - and advisory firms doing deals in Africa. This process will be supported by experienced top managers with a wealth of experience and an amazing track record regarding dealmaking.

With a firm belief in free market capitalism and market driven ideas and backed by a wealth of experience in the energy and legal landscape, Centurion is expanding business and project development, both continentally and globally. With legal and transactional services in fast growing African markets and well-established partnerships with corporate clients’ key for the firm, the listing will enable corporate objectives to be met.

Meanwhile, owned predominantly by employees and the public, the firm has now positioned itself as ‘belonging to everyone,’ therefore, emphasising its focus on people and business. The listing has increased the company’s exposure while improving its competitiveness. With a focus being placed on increasing shareholder value, Centurion’s growth strategy has been clearly defined.

“Centurion is proud to have built something that now belongs to everyone. As a firm, we are committed to African people and Africa’s development, and feel that it is exceptionally important that the firm is now owned by employees and the public. With a mandate to facilitate increased trade, business and investment in a myriad of African sectors, the listing on the Open Market of the Düsseldorf Stock Exchange will be instrumental in our ambition to drive economic growth and multilateral partnerships,” continued Ayuk.