MAPUTO, Mozambique, February 15, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The United States Government donated an additional 840,000 doses of the Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine to Mozambique, as part of a commitment to support equitable access to vaccines worldwide. These single-dose vaccines will allow the Ministry of Health to protect more Mozambicans from this COVID-19 virus and reach its national vaccination campaign goals quickly.


                                The long-standing U.S.-Mozambique partnership in the health sector has resulted in an effective response to the pandemic
                            

With this delivery, the U.S. Government has now donated over 4.3 million doses of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine to Mozambique. These donations are part of the coordinated U.S. Government assistance effort to support Mozambique’s response to COVID-19 and strengthen Mozambique’s resilience to the virus and its variants. The long-standing U.S.-Mozambique partnership in the health sector has resulted in an effective response to the pandemic, from testing to contact tracing, to treatment and vaccination. The nearly $80 million in U.S. Government assistance to combat COVID-19 includes providing urgent supplies that support infection prevention and control; improving the capacity of Mozambican laboratories and health facilities; improving COVID-19 surveillance, response, and case management; developing and enhancing public health outreach, risk communication and community engagement; and supporting the deployment of the COVID-19 vaccine nationwide.  For more information on U.S. support for Mozambique’s efforts to combat COVID-19, visit this link.

The United States is committed to leading the global COVID-19 response, having committed $4 billion to the COVAX Facility, becoming the largest donor to the global effort to vaccinate people around the world. The U.S. Government has also purchased one billion vaccines for low-income countries and donated 80 million vaccines from the United States’ own supply.

In close collaboration with the Government of the Republic of Mozambique, the U.S. Government provides more than $500 million in annual assistance to improve the quality of education and healthcare, promote economic prosperity, and support the overall development of the nation.