HONG KONG, Hong Kong, February 9, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Recently, TECNO (www.TECNO-Mobile.com), a premium international smartphone brand operating in over 70 countries, in association with its Official Partner Manchester City, has launched globally the world’s first immersive mobile augmented reality experience that allows you to sign for the Premier League champions and win VIP tickets to visit the Etihad Stadium this season. 



The #AnnounceYourself AR campaign is a never-before-seen digital experience within football, where international audiences can interact with City in a host of new, innovative ways.

You can now enter the virtual world of Manchester City courtesy of your built-in smartphone camera throughout January and February – without the requirement of downloading an app – and live and breathe what it’s like to become the club’s January Transfer Window signing from anywhere in the world.

Browse and interact with the City environment by exploring the Etihad Stadium and City Football Academy training campus in 360°, cross paths with first-team players, sign your new contract, unlock exclusive content and more!
                                Take part in the 3D TECNO Mobile penalty shootout game and share your score to social media alongside the #AnnounceYourself hashtag
                            

Then, take part in the 3D TECNO Mobile penalty shootout game and share your score to social media alongside the #AnnounceYourself hashtag, and you’ll be entered into a draw to win VIP matchday tickets and travel to a City home fixture this season.

There will also be a range of ongoing, exclusive digital content updates within the virtual environment, with supporters able to return on a weekly basis to unpack new features, such as unique player phone wallpapers.

#AnnounceYourself is live throughout January and February, and accessible via www.announceyourself.com  (should copy this link and open in a browser) or QR codes (on all pictures) published across Manchester City and TECNO Mobile digital channels/official website.

The experience is compatible with all iOS, Android and other major smartphone operating systems with a stable Wi-Fi or mobile data internet connection.

It’s time to go where you’ve never gone before. Head inside the experience and #AnnounceYourself!

*Prize to visit a Manchester City home match this season is subject to participating markets’ COVID-19 regulations on cross-border travel. Should this prize not be feasible, an alternative experience and/or giveaway will be arranged. TECNO Mobile reserves the right to determine eligibility of the prize. Click here for full terms and conditions.