DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, February 25, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The Head of the Catholic Church in Africa (www.Vatican.va), His Eminence Cardinal Philippe Ouédraogo, concluded his three-day official visit to Expo 2020 Dubai.



As President of the Symposium of Episcopal Conferences of Africa and Madagascar (SECAM) (www.SECAM.org), HE Cardinal Philippe Ouédraogo is the highest-ranking member of the Roman Catholic Church in Africa.

At Expo 2020 Dubai, Cardinal Ouédraogo visited the African Union Pavilion and the pavilions of South Africa, Burkina Faso and Senegal. He also visited the Holy See Pavilion.
                                At Expo 2020 Dubai, Cardinal Ouédraogo visited the African Union Pavilion and the pavilions of South Africa, Burkina Faso and Senegal
                            

The following is a statement from His Eminence Cardinal Philippe Ouédraogo, President of the Symposium of Episcopal Conferences of Africa and Madagascar (SECAM):

"Wherever Christians go, their pastors must be there too. It is therefore a duty and an honor for us pastors of the Church of Jesus Christ to visit Expo Dubai, where the theme: "Connecting Minds, Building the Future" is perfectly in line with the reflections of the synodal process (https://bit.ly/3BNNqvg)  initiated by Pope Francis for the universal church.

At this gathering in Dubai, we had nothing to sell or buy. It was a meeting of giving and receiving, of dialogue and brotherhood. It is therefore with enthusiasm, gratitude and hope that we have undertaken this journey to Dubai as a pilgrimage.

This visit was filled with enriching encounters, and allowed us to thank and encourage the African Union Commission for all its efforts to heal and protect the image and the imagination of Africa. A wounded and sick image of a bruised continent, where some multinationals come to exploit the resources and wealth, often to the detriment of the people who languish under the weight of misery...

Even if the Catholic Church works for eternal happiness, we often find ourselves at the front line, facing and trying to combat many social challenges, such as: education, health, environmental protection, fundamental human rights, commitment to the poorest, reconciliation, justice, peace...

May the Blessed Virgin Mary Our Lady of Africa and Saint Joseph protector of the universal Church intercede for the Church Family of God in Africa and Madagascar, and for the whole world that God loves."