PORT LOUIS, Mauritius, February 22, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            In a bid to collaborate with Government in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, Omincane Management & Consultancy Ltd, which is also a producer of Dina Care hand sanitiser, donated to the Prime Minister’s Office some 1 000 litres of hand sanitiser for Rodrigues.



In this context, a symbolic handing over ceremony was held, this morning, at the Free Port in Mer Rouge, in the presence of the Acting Secretary to Cabinet and Head of the Civil Service, Secretary for Home Affairs, Mr Om Kumar Dabidin, and the Chief Executive Officer of Omnicane, Mr Jacques d’Unienville. Other high Government Officials also attended the ceremony.
                                The company has produced more than 100 000 litres of sanitiser, out of which some 10 000 litres have already been donated to the Ministry of Health and Wellness
                            

In a statement, Mr Dabidin commended Omnicane for its humanitarian gesture and recalled that Government required the collaboration of the private sector and of the population at large so as to effectively fight the pandemic. He further appealed to other private sector institutions to join Omnicane’s initiative and contribute to stop the proliferation of COVID-19 in Rodrigues.

He highlighted that the 1, 000 litres of hand sanitiser would firstly be distributed in pre-primary, primary and secondary schools in Rodrigues, as well as in area health centres and hospitals.

For his part, Mr d’Unienville underscored that the 1 000 litres of Dina Care hand sanitiser were manufactured by Omnicane itself. “As at date,” he observed, “the company has produced more than 100 000 litres of sanitiser, out of which some 10 000 litres have already been donated to the Ministry of Health and Wellness as well as other institutions.” “One of Omnicane’s building has also been put at the disposal of Government for its ongoing vaccination campaign,” he added.

He expressed his wish that the COVID-19 pandemic be eradicated at the earliest, and stressed that sanitisers greatly contributed towards achieving this endeavour. According to him, the 1 000 litres of hand sanitiser would leave Mauritius next Saturday and would reach Rodrigues in about a week’s time.