KAMPALA, Uganda, February 24, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Members of Parliament who subscribe to the catholic faith on Tuesday, 22 February 2022 received a full dose of spiritual enlightenment during their induction workshop organised by the Parliamentary Catholic Chaplaincy.



The induction workshop that was attended by over 40 MPs was meant to sensitise and familiarise the catholic legislators with the roles and activities of the chaplaincy that among others includes, conducting weekly Eucharistic mass, outreach programmes for the needy, mobilising support towards church projects and organising retreats.

Rev. Fr. Raymond Kalanzi, a charismatic priest and director of Radio Maria who graced the induction workshop presided over a Holy Mass where he gave the MPs three main takeaways to smoothen their stay at Parliament.
                                For the time you have been in that constituency, you must set your boundaries and say today I am going home to my husband and become a good wife
                            

Kalanzi urged the MPs to learn to set their boundaries and stop being predictable if they are to become definitive legislators whom God wants them to be.  “The Lord has given you the key; you will keep it close when it needs to be closed and you will keep it open when it needs to be open. Success in everything you do is defined by how you set boundaries to your life. As leaders, don’t be predictable in everything you do,” Kalanzi said.

He advised the MPs to balance their work schedule appropriately with their social and family life. “For the time you have been in that constituency, you must set your boundaries and say today I am going home to my husband and become a good wife. Some women [MPs] have even forgotten how to cook that luwombo or mingle that posho,” he said.

He added that successfully people know how to set their boundaries by having time for work and social life.

Kalanzi advised MPs to not only set their boundaries, but also mark and protect their territories saying it is not against the principle of humility.
“In leadership, you should learn to mark your territories. Humble people are not stupid; God gave you that territory you must mark it by fighting the devil,” he said.

Kalanzi also urged the MPs to learn to celebrate their victories by sparing time to socialise and rejoice with people that matter in their lives in order to uplift their souls.
Rev. Fr. Pontian Kaweesa, the Chaplain of the Parliamentary Catholic Chaplaincy has urged the MPs and staff to turn the Chaplaincy into their spiritual power house by joining them for Mass every Tuesday.

The Parliamentary catholic chaplaincy that is currently chaired by Hon Lucy Akello was established in 2001 in to promote catholic spirit and identity among MPs and staff.