ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia, February 6, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            On the margins of the 35th Ordinary Session of the Assembly of the African Union taking place in Addis Abba Ethiopia,  President Wavel Ramkalawan held discussions with the President of Kenya, H.E Uhuru Kenyatta and the President of Cape Verde, H.E Hose Maria Heves.



Seychelles and Kenya have over the past years enjoyed long standing relations and the bilateral talks this morning were an opportunity to identify and agree on the priority areas to deepen cooperation. 

The two Heads of State have agreed to review existing cooperation agreements and to further enhance bilateral relations for the mutual benefit of both nations.

Some of the key thematic areas of cooperation discussed, included maritime security, exchange in military cooperation, agriculture and fisheries, air connectivity, tourism, training in field of nursing and livestock production as well as the Blue Economy.
                                The Cape Verdean President has also extended an invitation to his counter part, President Ramkalawan to visit Cape Verde later this year
                            

As part of the commitment to further cement the relations between Seychelles and Kenya,  President Ramkalawan has extended an invitation to President Kenyatta for an official visit to Seychelles. 

President Ramkalawan also yesterday (Saturday 6th February) held talks with fellow Small Island Developing State, the President of Cape Verde, H.E Hose Maria Neves.

President Ramkalawan and President Neves, as Heads of State of two small island nations were able to exchange views on spheres of common interests.

The fruitful discussions presented an ideal opportunity to chart a new course ahead and further bolster areas of possible cooperation in domains such as the the blue economy, renewable energy and climate change. The adverse effects of the Covid-19 pandemic on the tourism industry were also touched upon. The two countries have also agreed to the exchange of best pratices and expertise of which the peoples of both nation could benefit from.

The Cape Verdean President has also extended an invitation to his counter part, President Ramkalawan to visit Cape Verde later this year.

For the second and final day of the AU Summit for Heads of State and Government, President Ramkalawan also attended the various working sessions and presentation of reports by Champions for various thematic areas.

Other members of the Seychelles delegation present included the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Tourism, Mr Sylvestre Radegonde, the Ambassador and Head of Mission in Ethiopia, Ambassador Conrad Mederic, Principal Counsellor, Mrs Johnette Stephen and Foreign Affairs AU Desk Officer, Mr Rodney Sinon.