GENEVA, Switzerland, February 18, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The 8th Edition of the Global Road Safety Film Festival, to be held on 21-22 February 2022, will showcase the best films from among submissions from over 40 countries worldwide that highlight smart and safe mobility solutions to the road safety crisis.



The Festival’s focus on smart and safe mobility follows a global call over the last four months for short films – from professional video makers, interested individuals, civil society and government bodies – to promote awareness of how to make roads safer and fight the silent crisis of road deaths and injuries.

Over 95 films are taking part in the Film Festival competition from 40 countries worldwide including Chile, Egypt, El Salvador Ethiopia, India, Jordan, Kyrgyzstan, Morocco, Pakistan and Senegal. Screenings are being held on the first day of the festival, with the award ceremony due to wrap up the second day.

In addition to the Grand Prize, Most Creative and Innovative Film, and Jury Prize, this Edition of the Festival includes a special UN Road Safety Fund Moments2Live4 campaign prize, which will be voted for by the public online. Additional awards will be given to films under the themes of speed, driving under influence, safe equipment, protecting children, distracted driving and on youth and women.
                                We are pleased to be part of this new cooperation mechanism that extends across media, science and culture
                            

The event, held as part of the Inland Transport Committee’s (ITC) 75th Anniversary session, is being run by the Laser International Foundation, together with the UN Road Safety Fund and UN Economic Commission for Europe.

The UN Road Safety Fund will also premiere its ‘Join the Change’ short film at the Festival, which has been produced by La Nuez Audiovisual Productions, featuring a new platform for individual donations.

“We are proud to support the 8th Edition of the Film Festival highlighting the citizens behind smart road safety solutions worldwide,” stated Nneka Henry, Head of the UN Road Safety Fund. “Awareness and advocacy matter if we are to create the global change at the core of the UN Road Safety Fund’s work. I invite audiences to watch the films, vote for your favourite Moments2Live4 video, and donate to help us aim higher.”

“The creative movies, shot by communities, schools and government agencies, show the difference of driving by the rules. Road safety principles make everyone’s life less fragile. We must continue to work at international institutional level to deliver a culture of road safety”, commented Luciana Iorio, Chair of the UNECE/ITC Global Forum for Road Traffic Safety. 

“The Global Road Safety Film Festival developments are at their heart about extending the network of road safety stakeholders, helping to facilitate international cooperation in the critical area of road safety, and rolling out fresh local and national multimedia programs,” said Robert Trottein, President of the Laser International Foundation. “We are pleased to be part of this new cooperation mechanism that extends across media, science and culture.”

The Festival will be webstreamed and winning entries will be available to screen at events worldwide. To register please visit: https://roadsafetyfund.un.org/en/events/global-road-safety-film-festival-2022.