JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, July 1, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Falken Tyres South Africa (www.FalkenTyreSAfrica.com) has announced the launch of their Mileage Warranty which is available on purchase of the WILDPEAK AT3WA (Original Equipment on the Mercedes G Wagon) and the ZIEX ZE914EC. The FALKEN MILEAGE WARRANTY is issued by Stamford Tyres Africa PTY LTD (www.Stamford.co.za) on Falken branded products only. (Stamford Tyres is the distributor of Falken Tyres in South Africa)



The Japanese brand says its new Mileage Warranty aims to protect drivers against premature tread wear, guaranteeing a specified mileage for tyre use before they wear out. The warranty is Free of Charge and it is available to customers who purchase 4 or more tyres from any participating dealer.

The Mileage Warranty covers premature tread wear and is available when you purchase the following Falken tyres:

Wildpeak AT3WA 100000KM: All sizes up to 18 inch. (DESIGNED IN JAPAN, the AT3WA combines durable off-road ability and rugged terrain driving without compromises on the road. It represents a true ALL TERRAIN performance tyre. It was designed with the Sumitomo Rubber Industries (SRI) Award Winning 4D Nano technology, making it the best ever SUV/ 4x4 tyre from Falken and one of the best in the market)

ZIEX ZE914EC 50000KM: All sizes up to 17 inch. (The ZIEX ZE914EC has been designed with a low resistance compound for fuel savings while retaining high performance levels.  The tyre was designed for small and midsize vehicles with a size list ranging from 12-inch to 18-inch. It is a great tyre for enthusiasts looking to save at the pump)  
                                In our efforts to grow the Falken Brand in South Africa, we understand that it is also important to improve drivers’ road safety while maximising tyre life
                            

“One of our main goals is to add value to our customers’ experiences. In our efforts to grow the Falken Brand in South Africa, we understand that it is also important to improve drivers’ road safety while maximising tyre life, says Stamford Tyres GM, José Romero. We are excited to offer our customers the Mileage Warranty and we are confident that our products will deliver on their promise. We want our customers to enjoy the maximum mileage that we offer on Falken Tyres”, he added. 

Falken Tyres has developed a simple and user friendly portal that will help customers to register for their Mileage Warranty and also update any maintenance done on the tyres.

“We too, are customers on the flip side of the coin, and we understand that it can be frustrating to have to register for after sales benefits of a product, be it insurance or grocery points. As such, we have made our registration process pain free and easy for our customers”, says José.  

How It Works: 

To qualify, customers must purchase four (4) of any of the specified Falken Tyres, have the wheel alignment and balancing done at the same time  at any tyre dealer who has an account with Stamford Tyres Africa.

The registered owner of the vehicle (who must also be the purchaser of the tyres) is required to register the Mileage Warranty on the portal (https://bit.ly/3I46dFQ) within 7 days of purchase.

To maintain the warranty, tyres must be rotated, balanced and aligned after fitment at a Stamford Tyres registered tyre dealer.

Visit our Mileage Warranty Website for full Terms and Conditions: (https://bit.ly/3I46dFQ)