JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, July 12, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Petur Georgesson, the CEO and Founder at Technology Metals Market, a global platform which manages investments on critical metals, will be coming to Cape Town to drive discussions on energy investment and the integration between mining and energy in Africa at Africa’s premier event for the energy sector, African Energy Week (AEW) (www.AECWeek.com), which will take place from 18 – 21 October 2022.



Georgesson has more than 22 years of experience in investment management within the clean energy, technology and mining sectors. Prior to his current role, Georgesson worked as Chairman for the United Nation’s Intergovernmental Renewable Energy Organization in Iceland where he built partnerships between governments, NGOs, the private sector and financial institutions to fund renewable energy deployment and improve energy sustainability and accessibility in developing countries.



Currently, Georgesson manages direct investment across the entire value chain regarding critical metals such as graphene, lithium, nickel, cobalt and copper which are used to develop electronics, sensors and energy equipment such solar systems, battery energy storage and electric vehicles. Georgesson’s vast experience in the energy and minerals segments will be vital in driving dialogue around Africa’s energy transition and the mining markets that will drive it.

With the energy transition triggering an increase in demand for mineral resources, an opportunity has arisen for African countries such as the Democratic Republic of Congo, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Namibia and South Africa – which are rich in cobalt, nickel, copper and lithium – to maximize the monetization and exploitation of these resources to fuel renewable energy adoption and associated economic growth. In line with this, at AEW 2022 Georgesson will discuss the role Africa can play to advance the energy transition, both across the continent and internationally.
                                At AEW 2022, Georgesson will participate in panel discussions and high-level meetings where he will offer insight into investment trends, partner selection, and deal signing
                            



“It all starts with African confidence. Allow no one - foreign investors or African leaders - the opportunity to exploit the resources for fast returns. The solution to recovering a part of the value chain means understanding the value in that value chain. It means having the confidence to say ‘no.’ No, we will no longer deliver just raw materials anymore. You want what we have, be prepared to add value inside Africa. Ministry representatives from every African nation and active market participants will attend AEW 2022. This is a wonderful moment to empower and broaden your supply chains and meet your future African partners. Technology Metals Market is supporting the organizing committee to make this event into a place where business gets done,” stated Georgesson exclusively to the AEC.

Georgesson’s experience on energy production and investments across four continents will be critical at AEW 2022 as stakeholders discuss and develop solutions to driving Africa’s energy transition on the back of increased investment and development across the mining space. Under a mandate to make energy poverty history by 2030, AEW 2022 unites the entire energy sector to have a real discussion on the future of the African energy sector.



“Rich in both natural and mineral resources, Africa is well positioned to drive long-term, sustainable economic growth for years to come. By scaling up investment in strategic sectors, the continent can supply both Africa’s and the world’s renewable industries,” stated NJ Ayuk, the Executive Chairman of AEC, adding that “The AEC is honored to host Petur Georgesson at AEW 2022 where boosting investments across the continent’s mining and energy sectors will be discussed and deals negotiated and signed.”



At AEW 2022, Georgesson will participate in panel discussions and high-level meetings where he will offer insight into investment trends, partner selection, and deal signing. Under the theme ‘Exploring and Investing in Africa’s Energy Future while Driving an Enabling Environment,’ AEW 2022 is committed to having a real discussion of the future of the African energy industry.