MASERU, Lesotho, July 18, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            This year’s King’s Birthday has been celebrated differently from all other years when the Nation countrywide would celebrate the day with traditional activities, and all dressed up in traditional attire.



This year, the celebration took a different turn as the Christian Council of Lesotho (CCL) hosted a prayer session at the Royal Palace premises to wish His Majesty King Letsie III and the entire royal family good health, and prosperity.

In all these years, the celebration was rotating in the ten districts, but this year His Majesty mandated that the funds that used to be allocated for his birthday must be diverted to other crucial public services.

In May 2022, His Majesty handed over three high care ambulances to the Ministry of Health at an event held at the Royal Palace. The three ambulances were bought with funds that were supposed to be used to celebrate King’s Birthday in 2020, however, it was agreed that the celebration, would not be held instead the money amounting to M2 million would be used to fight the COVID-19 pandemic.
                                The Christian Council of Lesotho hosted a prayer session at the Royal Palace premises to wish His Majesty King Letsie III and the entire royal family good health, and prosperity
                            

In an interview with some of the Politicians who attended a prayer, the leader of the Alliance of Democrats AD), Mr. Monyane Moleleki said this is a great move taken by his Majesty to extend his hand to vulnerable ministries especially the Ministry of Health which is dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic.

Again, he said there are other critical issues that the country needs to focus on such as high unemployment and hunger, noting that such money could be used to respond to such things. He said this is the time for all to reconsider helping each other despite the hard times of price hikes.

Mr. Moleleki appreciated the effort by the Christian Council of Lesotho (CCL) for the initiative it took to host a prayer not only for the King’s Birthday celebration but also for political stability in the country.

Mr. Nkaku Kabi, the Leader of the All Basotho Convention (ABC) said as politicians they long for nothing other than peaceful elections for political stability in the country, commenting that it has become a norm for elections to cause instability and that need to change.

He noted that they are hopeful that this year’s elections will bring stability, peace and a positive change in economic growth, saying they are trying hard to maintain peace and stability in the country despite political differences.

Present to grace this event included the Prime Minister, Dr Moeketsi Majoro, Cabinet ministers, members of the Diplomatic Missions, members of the royal family, politicians, and senior government officials.