PRETORIA, South Africa, July 8, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS) calls on all South Africans to actively participate in the annual Clear Rivers campaign spearheaded by the Department in its efforts to have pollution free and healthy water sources.



The Clear Rivers campaign was initiated in 2016 in the spirit of Mandela Month, a call for people to dedicate 67 of their minutes in the spirit of goodwill to clean up rivers, canals, streams, wetland and other water sources. The purpose of the campaign is to encourage active and responsible citizenry across the spectrum where people become participants in promoting pollutions free environment to improve water quality and ensure water security in the country.

This year’s campaign will be held under the theme “South Africa is a water scarce country, clean up and protect water resources."
                                Communities and livestock particularly stand a better chance of an improved quality of life when our rivers are clean and healthy
                            

Departmental Spokesperson, Sputnik Ratau says the Clear Rivers campaign is one of the important campaigns undertaken by the Department and has called on community members, businesses, civil societies, organisations, churches and everyone to join hands with government and clean up all water streams across the country.

“This campaign is close to our heart as the department because it speaks to many issues that affect water quality and water security in the country. The pollution of water sources is dire and this scourge needs everyone involved as government can’t do it alone”, he emphasised.

In addition, Ratau says healthy water sources is paramount in the country as clean and quality water is not just a basic human right alone, but it is also a catalyst to the economic development. “Communities and livestock particularly stand a better chance of an improved quality of life when our rivers are clean and healthy. Agricultural community, the mining sector, fisheries amongst others benefit a great deal from healthy streams”, he added.

The envisaged outcome of this year’s campaign is to amongst others ensure the following, environmentally conscious communities, pollution free rivers, well informed and educated communities.

The Department of Water and Sanitation is continuing to plead with communities to take responsibility in as far as conserving and protecting the rivers is concerned and report pollution of rivers and freshwater ecosystems to the DWS Hotline on 0800 200 200.