ABUJA, Nigeria, July 2, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Vice Presidents at Portuguese giants Benfica Football Club, Manuel Debrito and Jose Gandarez have praised the laudable ideas of Nigeria’s Sports Minister, Sunday Dare, who is in Portugal alongside President Muhammadu Buhari, as part of deliberate efforts to continually develop sports in the country.



Dare was given an official tour of Benfica’s facilities, including the enormous 65,000 capacity Estádio da Luz home ground of the club.

After several brainstorming sessions, Sunday Dare and the Benfica Vice Presidents shared notes on football development for the country and also on club football structure.
                                Dare was given an official tour of Benfica’s facilities, including the enormous 65,000 capacity Estádio da Luz home ground of the club
                            

Speaking thereafter, Vice President, Manuel Debrito lauded Dare’s drive and ideas while alluding that his administrative acumen will help Nigerian sports grow.

Debrito said, “Nigeria is blessed to have Dare as its Sports Minister. His ideas on sports administration is lofty and charming. He is in touch with modern trends in sports development and we appreciate him for honouring us with his presence.”

Dare was also presented with the official jersey of the 37 time Portuguese champions, as he appreciated the club for their warmth.

“I want to appreciate this club that stands as a global sporting institution. Your 65,000 capacity stadium is one of the top football grounds in Europe and we are putting all hands on deck to achieve same and even more in Nigeria. Just as this club has a thriving youth system that has generated over 1 Billion Euros in the last decade, Nigeria is also unrelenting in grassroots sports development and we would borrow a leaf, where needed,” Dare said.

Nigeria’s Minister of Youth and Sports Development arrived Portugal earlier in the week alongside President, Muhammadu Buhari to seal multiple Memoranda of Understanding in the area of Sports, as well as Youth development between Nigeria and Portugal.