JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, July 18, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Team Qhubeka (https://TeamQhubeka.com/) is thrilled to announce that it will return to the Tour of Britain in 2022. Featuring South African rider Nicholas Dlamini, who was crowned the ŠKODA King of the Mountains in the 2018 Tour, the team will compete in the UK’s most prestigious cycle race for the 10th time.



Team Qhubeka have an illustrious history in the event, having won the race twice – through Edvald Boasson Hagen (2015) and British rider Steve Cummings (2016) – since they made their debut in 2008. Boasson Hagen also claimed one of the team’s two stage victories in the race to date.

The team’s roster includes some of Africa’s most promising talents – including South African Travis Stedman and Ethiopian Negasi Haylu Abreha – alongside upcoming Italian riders Luca Coati, Jacopo Menegotto and Kevin Bonaldo. Since the team’s inception, Team Qhubeka has played a crucial role in developing cycling in Africa. Over 50 riders from the continent have had the opportunity to grow through the team’s programme and race at the highest level. Qhubeka, the team’s charity partner, has supplied more than 100,000 bicycles through fundraising initiatives.
                                To be invited this year to the UK’s biggest bike race is such a privilege
                            

Mick Bennett, Tour of Britain race director, said: “Inviting Team Qhubeka back to the Tour of Britain was a no-brainer. In addition to being one of the most successful teams in modern race history, the work Qhubeka do in Africa still needs to be both celebrated and given a platform from which their message can be spread. We wish them the best of luck for their upcoming races and look forward to seeing them in Aberdeen this September.”

Douglas Ryder, Team Qhubeka - team principal, said: “To be invited this year to the UK’s biggest bike race is such a privilege. We have fought hard on the roads of the UK with great success in the past and have always felt the warm reception and support for our team and the Qhubeka Charity from the public. We look forward to showing our colours and presenting our young team this year in an event ending on the Isle of Wight, and its toughest finish to date.”

This year’s Tour of Britain will see over 100 of the world’s best riders battling it out for glory across eight days of racing. Beginning in Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire on Sunday 4 September, this year’s route will feature the race’s first visit to North Yorkshire since 2009, and first-ever full stages in Gloucestershire and Dorset, before what promises to be an unforgettable finale on the Isle of Wight (Sunday 11 September).

Team Qhubeka are the sixth team confirmed for this year’s race; they will join a Great British national squad and the country’s four leading domestic squads – Ribble Weldtite Pro Cycling, Saint Piran, TRINITY Racing and Wiv SunGod – on the start line.

Last year’s star-studded race was won by Belgian rider Wout Van Aert (Team Jumbo – Visma), with reigning world road race champion Julian Alaphilippe finishing third overall. A roadside crowd of over one million spectators resulted in the Tour of Britain generating £29.96m of net economic benefit for the UK economy, according to research by Frontline.

ITV4 will continue to broadcast live flag-to-flag coverage of every stage, as well as a nightly highlights show, allowing fans in the UK to watch wherever they are. The race will also be shown in over 150 countries worldwide, in part thanks to the event’s partnerships with Eurosport and the Global Cycling Network.