DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, July 18, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Madinat Jumeirah, Jumeirah Group’s (www.Jumeirah.com ) mega-resort is inviting guests from all around the world to indulge in luxury as they explore the authentically recreated Arabia, with its meandering waterways and Middle Eastern architecture, while they enjoy a memorable holiday.



Also known as the ‘Jewel of Dubai’ and offering a truly unique experience, Madinat Jumeirah is home to four ultra-luxurious hotels – Jumeirah Al Naseem, Jumeirah Al Qasr, Jumeirah Dar Al Masyaf and Jumeirah Mina A’Salam – all nestled within picturesque waterways connected by traditional abras. Set against the backdrop of the majestic Burj Al Arab Jumeirah, the resort boasts 2km of pristine, private beachfront, the award-winning Talise Spa, state-of-the-art fitness and leisure facilities and exclusive penthouse, suite and private summerhouse experiences with unrivalled benefits. Located close to Jumeirah Beach Hotel and Burj Al Arab Jumeirah, the resort is just 25 minutes away from the Dubai International Airport and is a 15–20-minute drive away from some of the Emirate’s major attractions making it an enticing place for those who wish to experience the city’s scintillating energy while relaxing in a serene environment.

Jumeirah Al Naseem

A cool and contemporary beachside retreat, Jumeirah Al Naseem offers world-class dining and comfort in spectacular surroundings. Boasting a large inventory of 435 rooms including 44 suites, the resort provides exceptional comfort in a serene environment and is a three-minute buggy ride away from the Wild Wadi Waterpark, Dubai’s most iconic waterpark. Meaning sea breeze in Arabic, Jumeirah Al Naseem boasts five extraordinary dining venues featuring a wide range of cuisines. The hotel’s signature restaurants include KAYTO (Peruvian Japanese), Rockfish (Mediterranean Seafood), Al Mandhar (Lobby Lounge) and The Palmery (International).

Apart from providing guests service beyond expectations and signature dining experiences, the resort is also committed to preserving wildlife, which it does through the Dubai Turtle Rehabilitation Project (DTRP). The resort is home to Dubai’s only state-of-the-art Turtle Rehabilitation Sanctuary including a sea-fed lagoon that monitors the progress and condition of rescued sea turtles before releasing them back into UAE waters. Run by DTRP, the resort plays a key role in the conservation of sea turtles and hosts regular workshops educating communities and guests on marine biology and the local and global plight of sea turtles.

Jumeirah Al Qasr

Located a few minutes away from Jumeirah Al Naseem is the regal Jumeirah Al Qasr, Madinat Jumeirah’s luxury palatial resort inspired by the fantasies of 1,001 Arabian nights. Nestled within 40 hectares of landscaped gardens, the hotel comprises of 292 rooms including 32 suites offering optimal comfort while reflecting royal Arabian opulence. The captivating lobby is an immediate immersion into the world of the Arabian Peninsula, with exuberant flower arrangements and a 5 tonne crystal chandelier that glitters the sunrise and sunset across the lobby.

The resort is a firm favourite amongst families owing to its proximity to the Wild Wadi Waterpark as well as a Kids’ Club, which offers junior guests all the fun and frolic in a safe environment. Building on its reputation as a family-friendly property, the palatial resort boasts numerous chilled pools including the adults only Celeste Pool, a 22-metre infinity pool where guests can take a dip in tranquil privacy while enjoying picturesque views of the Arabian Gulf, take a stroll on the private white-sand beach as well as sip on delicious bubbly sundowners. Living up to its meaning ‘The Palace’, Jumeirah Al Qasr is also home to the rejuvenating Talise Spa, an award-winning sanctuary for mind, body and soul. Spread across tranquil waterways and tropical landscapes, Talise Spa offers the ultimate in wellness with a curated menu of specialised treatments and exclusive international products to provide guests with a truly blissful experience, and in-house guests have the option of arriving in style using the resorts charming ‘abra’ wooden traditional boats.
                                Apart from providing guests service beyond expectations and signature dining experiences, the resort is also committed to preserving wildlife
                            

Furthermore, guests with diverse palates are spoiled for choice with the breadth of culinary options Jumeirah Al Qasr has to offer. Whether it be elegant Parisian cocktails at the Bar Buci Lounge to rich mouthwatering dishes from Pierchic (Italian), French Riviera (French), Pai Thai (Thai), The Hide (American), Al Nafoorah (Lebanese), Al Fayrooz (lobby lounge) and Arboretum (International), guests will always find what satisfies their cravings. Last but certainly not least is The Palace Club Lounge in Jumeirah Al Qasr. Guests staying in the resort’s club rooms and suites can avail exclusive access to the lounge, offering private concierge service, complimentary daily breakfast, afternoon tea and sundowners at select timings, and 15% savings on laundry and pressing services.

Jumeirah Dar Al Masyaf

Meaning ‘the summerhouse’ in Arabic, the property is designed to evoke the romanticism of the Arabian summerhouses from the nostalgic past. Nestled in a serene green setting along the Madinat Jumeirah waterways, each villa offers guests a special arrival via a traditional Abra and has its own on-call dedicated butler, who is available to assist guests with their every need. Creating a ‘home-from-home’ atmosphere, the butlers are available 24/7 to pack or unpack, make restaurant and tour bookings and help with anything the guests require. Jumeirah Dar Al Masyaf boasts 290 rooms, suites and villas with each summerhouse comprising of 9-11 individual rooms – garden-, canal- or sea-facing –, which can be booked individually or as a group making it perfect for both multigenerational family stays and romantic getaways for couples seeking privacy. Although the summerhouses are designed to be intimate and private, guests are never far from the facilities of the neighbouring Madinat Jumeirah resort. Guests booking stays at Jumeirah Dar Al Masyaf have access to more than 20 restaurants and bars, the mega-resort’s several pools, Talise Spa, Sinbad Kids’ Club, J Club and much more – all just a stroll or an abra ride away.

Jumeirah Mina A’Salam

Meaning ‘Harbour of Peace’, the boutique resort just steps away from the beach pays homage to the seafaring heritage of the UAE and was the first hotel to open in Madinat Jumeirah. True to its name, the hotel is a blissful haven of luxurious charm comprising of 292 rooms including 12 suites promising the warmest Arabian hospitality.

One of the key design features of the hotel’s setting within Madinat Jumeirah is the 3km-long network of winding waterways that connect the four hotels by transporting guests via the traditional ‘abra’ wooden boats to soak in the stunning architecture and lush gardens while indulging in a refreshing afternoon tea or an evening session of bubbles for the authentic Arabian experience. Also, home to the property is J Club, Jumeirah’s premium wellness and lifestyle destination. Those looking to stay fit during their stays at Madinat Jumeirah are welcome to avail the facilities of J Club offering a diverse programme of exercise classes, an indoor swimming pool, three tennis courts, two squash courts, a padel court and much more.

Jumeirah Mina A’Salam offers an opulent escape for families, groups and couples complete with an endless array of dining outlets situated close to the beach. Guests can access the resort’s six signature restaurants including Shimmers (Greek/Mediterranean), Zheng He’s (Chinese), Bahri Bar (Modern Mixology), Tortuga (Mexican), Hanaaya (International) and Al Samar Lounge (Lobby Lounge) to satisfy their culinary desires and leave feeling sated and full. Also, just a few steps away from the entrance of Jumeirah Mina A’Salam are a range of multi-purpose venues designed to deliver understated luxury within exquisite spaces for award-winning events. Offering a wide range of multifunctional spaces, the Madinat Jumeirah Conference Centre boasts the Middle East's largest and most diverse collection of venues. From private meeting rooms and intimate restaurant locations to large ballrooms and the Madinat Arena, the conference and banqueting options excel in scale, flexibility and quality, setting the stage for world-class events. 

Promising time exceptionally well spent, Madinat Jumeirah is inviting guests from across the globe to enjoy an array of exclusive privileges when they book a staycation at any of its four properties this summer. Through its new Jumeirah Summer Escapes promotion, guests who book before 31st July 2021 for stays up until 30th September 2023 can save up to 20% when staying four nights or more. Alongside this enticing offer, guests will enjoy unique benefits and exclusive privileges with further offers on the Jumeirah Group’s unrivalled wellness and dining experiences.

Available on either a breakfast-only or half board basis, the Jumeirah Summer Escapes offer includes:


	Up to 20% off our Jumeirah Flexible rate when staying four nights or more (Inclusive of 5% off exclusive for Jumeirah One (https://bit.ly/3yCvqCR) Members)
	USD 100 per stay resort credit (for Suite bookings)
	Access to private temperature-controlled pools
	Unlimited access to Wild Wadi Waterpark™
	Use of wellness facilities at Talise Spa and J Club
	Sinbad’s Kids Club access for junior guests
	Two-for-one Happy Hour from 15:00-19:00 at select venues
	30 complimentary minutes at Talise Spa with every 60-minute treatment
	Daily breakfast when booking Jumeirah Escapes with Breakfast
	Daily breakfast, and lunch or dinner when booking Jumeirah Escapes with Half Board
	Complimentary wi-fi to share your special moments
	Jumeirah One (https://bit.ly/3yCvqCR) members can elevate their Jumeirah Summer Escapes with an inclusive 5% off their stay and a complimentary upgrade (subject to availability)




To find out more about this enticing summer offer, visit https://bit.ly/3yBLfKd. In the meantime, stay connected via our social media channels and don’t forget to tag us in your posts with #TimeExceptionallyWellSpent.