CAPE TOWN, South Africa, July 11, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The Chief Whip of the National Council of Provinces, Mr Seiso Mohai, is leading a South African parliamentary delegation to the Southern African Development Community Parliamentary Forum’s (SADC PF) 51st Plenary Assembly Session, which runs from today, 11 to Thursday, 14 July 2022.



The delegation includes Mr Desmond Lawrence Moela and Ms Nkhensani Kate Bilankulu of the African National Congress; Mr Darren Bergman of the Democratic Alliance and Ms Ntombovuyo Mente of the Economic Freedom Fighters.
                                The Plenary Session is hosted in collaboration with the Parliament of Malawi, as it is their turn to host in line with the forum’s constitution
                            

The Plenary Session is hosted in collaboration with the Parliament of Malawi, as it is their turn to host in line with the forum’s constitution. Each of the 15 member parliaments has a turn to host on a rotational basis. South Africa is next in line to host the session.

The theme for the session is: “Towards Energy Efficiency, Sustainability and Self Sufficiency in the SADC Region”.

The SADC PF prides itself on being the flag-bearer of democratisation and socio-economic development through harmonising and synchronising laws and policies in the region. It is the first inter-parliamentary association with an organ dedicated to monitoring the domestication of laws and international treaties in the form of the Regional Parliamentary Model Laws Oversight Committee.

Items scheduled during the four-day 51st Plenary Assembly include an opening ceremony to be addressed by the President of Malawi, Dr Lazarus McCarthy Chakwera, consideration and adoption of the Draft SADC Model Law on Public Financial Management, as well as a review of Executive Committee Reports and Members’ Motions.

Other plenary objectives and expected outcomes include the promotion of solidarity and inter-parliamentary cohesion amongst member parliaments.