ABUJA, Nigeria, May 25, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The May/June 2022 edition of the Luxury and Business publication PLEASURES Magazine (https://PleasuresMagazine.com.ng) features Nigerian Certified Business Consultant who currently heads PVG consults a top-tier management consulting firm. Dr Dauda has top-level experience in business process management, strategy and policy consultancy with a doctorate degree in Business Management.



Dr Ibrahim Bello Dauda needs no introduction but just in case you hadn't known or ever heard of her, all you need is to grab a copy of the Pleasures magazine to satisfy your curiosity, for, the award-winning and shinny role model administrator is the one who graces the cover of the November 2018 edition .

"This will be critical to connect, unify and automate all our government processes for efficient business transactions, increased revenue collections, and eradication of corruption in all levels of our bureaucracy.

I am sure that our digital reforms will not only bridge our digital divide but will also boost our competitive edge as a country of great potential in the digital world," Dr Dauda said.

To move Nigeria to its rightful place amongst comity of nations, the Chief Executive Officer, PVG Consult, Dr. Ibrahim Bello Dauda has stressed the need for harnessing digital leadership for sustainable economic development that promotes efficiency and expediency in Nigeria via digital leadership. 
                                I am sure that our digital reforms will not only bridge our digital divide but will also boost our competitive edge as a country of great potential in the digital world
                            

“In PVG Consult we work with entrepreneurs, businesses, and organisations to pursue opportunities that drive exceptional impact that improve the economy and in turn drive national development,’’ said Dr. Ibrahim Bello Dauda, who is also the President of the Platinum Vault Group while speaking exclusively with PLEASURES Magazine about his desire for professionalism. 

Dr. Dauda explained that PVG Consult is a leading Nigerian management consulting firm with extensive expertise, diverse experience, and a wide network of industry leaders that make the firm a prime partner for organisations seeking to achieve their goals in a timely, sustainable and cost-effective manner.

Dr. Dauda Desire For The Advancement And Empowerment Of The Almajiri Child

Dr. Dauda who is also the founder of Almajirai Empowerment Foundation (AEF) has stressed the need for the advancement and empowerment of the Almajiri Child and less privileged children in the society.

He decried that there are key elements that worsen the plight of the Almajirai child which include the neglect by the government, the local government, and the state government.

Dr. Dauda said AEF is about advocacy, providing support counseling, and other things to support the Almajiri child, the girl child, and generally children that needs support.

He also urged all Nigerians to be patriotic to their country. 

"Because one of the basic components of our problems as a nation is lack of patriotism and love for our country and love for one another. So, I will urge our brothers and sisters first to be patriotic and second to love ourselves because we are one," he added.