YAOUNDE, Cameroon, May 4, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Several Africans continue to live in poverty with minimal access to financial opportunities, quality education or good jobs. Binance (www.Binance.com), the world’s largest cryptocurrency exchange and blockchain ecosystem, has taken its efforts to Cameroon and Francophone Africa at large to bridge this gap - as it enables greater financial accessibility for Africans, provides blockchain education as well as guidance on acquiring new skills and avoiding scams in the financial world.



Here are some of the steps Binance has taken to equip French-speaking Africans:


	Education




Binance is committed to equipping crypto beginners with resources for lifelong financial and career development. The company has hosted multiple events to educate enthusiasts about the opportunities within the crypto space and how to make a living from these. Binance is unwavering in ensuring that crypto enthusiasts are well equipped with all the right information and do not fall prey to bad actors or scams.

Since the launch of the Binance Masterclass Education Series (https://bit.ly/3vFoN2w), Binance has educated over 541,000 Africans about cryptocurrency. Some of these events have been held both offline and online for French-speaking Africans.

Séverin Kouam, one of the attendees at the Binance event in Yaounde, Cameroon which was hosted on December 4, 2021 said: "I entered the cryptocurrency field by chance six months ago on the advice of a friend. But until now, I still didn't master the workings of this technology. So this training is very welcome since it allows me to better understand how it works, the benefits but most importantly the risks involved in cryptocurrency so that I don't get fooled while investing my money."
                                Binance is unwavering in ensuring that crypto enthusiasts are well equipped with all the right information and do not fall prey to bad actors or scams
                            

Binance also recently hosted its first offline meetup event in Cote D’Ivoire and launched a Crypto Academy, a monthly training program across 4 countries: Benin, Cameroon, Ivory Coast and Togo for a start.

This academy is in collaboration with 7 partners as Binance regularly collaborates with local businesses to train and support Africans, as well as empower businesses.


	Provision of Financial Opportunities




Through regular skills training and the services provided, Binance is creating new job opportunities for Cameroonians - and many are being brought out of poverty and learning new skills in order to remain employable globally.

Binance constantly shows Africans the multitude of career options available in the crypto and blockchain space by hosting bootcamps and hackathons where students get to work on real-time projects where they apply the skills they have gained. Some of these students have gone on to become employed in the workforce, build their own companies, start crypto trading and so much more. Binance gives Africans the opportunity to gain meaningful employment, thereby enabling them to be self-reliant and possibly employers of labour.

Binance has also provided career and income opportunities right from its platform. For example, users who signed up and were accepted for Binance P2P Merchant Program are now able to provide liquidity for buyers or sellers on the platform, thereby making a living from the comfort of their homes. Merchants complete multiple trades per day and make profits on each trade.

Binance P2P (https://bit.ly/3w34lHV) is a safe platform to conduct crypto trades with a robust security framework to ensure users enjoy a safe and secure crypto experience.

One of the Binance P2P Merchants, *George said: “I decided to become a Binance P2P merchant after reading up on their mode of operations. I saw how much safer it was when my first trade on the platform was so smooth and fast.” He added, “I have been able to add a car to my garage, and eventually, I’ll be able to get an even better car — all thanks to Binance.”


	Ensuring Security & User Protection




Binance’s top priority is user safety, as is evident from all their activities and interaction with the community. Across the board, Binance regularly puts protective measures in place to protect its users and ensure that fraudulent activity is prevented. Protection mechanisms such as KYC (bit.ly/3vH7GNP), anti-money laundering measures (https://bit.ly/3OUt4qh) and account restrictions have been put in place to ensure that users are protected from scams.

This is also why Binance was one of the first cryptocurrency exchanges to introduce a secure fund (SAFU) (https://bit.ly/3P8OsZh) to safeguard users in extreme cases and constantly educates its users on safety and security. The company also regularly implements new features to keep users safe. On Binance P2P, there are security updates, verified merchants and user security initiatives.