JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, May 12, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The African Energy Chamber (AEC), the voice of the African energy sector, is pleased to announce Antonio Oburu Ondo, Managing Director of the national oil company (NOC) of Equatorial Guinea, GEPetrol, will attend and participate at Africa’s leading investment platform for the oil and gas sector, African Energy Week (AEW) (AECWeek.com), which will take place from 18 – 21 October 2022 in Cape Town.



The participation of Antonio Oburu Ondo is crucial in highlighting progress achieved by GEPetrol and addressing challenges being faced by the NOC. The managing director will present the company’s vision as Equatorial Guinea seeks to accelerate oil and gas exploration, infrastructure rollout and the participation of international independents to revitalize its hydrocarbon economy.



An engineer by profession with a Master’s Degree of Science in Oil and Gas with the University of Aberdeen, Oburu was appointed the Managing Director of GEPetrol in 2015 to lead the NOC in a series of initiatives aimed at increasing exploration activities and production capacity in the gas-rich country. As a result, a number of international companies, including ExxonMobil, Marathon Oil Corp, AMPCO, Chevron, Atlas Petroleum, Gunvor, Glencore have launched exploration and production operations in Equatorial Guinea. In October 2017, Kosmos Energy signed three production-sharing contracts with Equatorial Guinea for the EG-21, S, and W offshore blocks.



Recently, GEPetrol and its partners, Trident Energy, Kosmos Energy and Panoro Energy, extended a production sharing contract for Block G with the Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons, a development that will expand investments, exploration and production in the block through 2040.



With Equatorial Guinea’s exploration licensing round coming up and the country aiming to attract American independents, Oburu will promote Equatorial Guinea’s rich basins, and investment opportunities available for international oil firms to partner with GEPetrol.

Oburu has also been instrumental in the development, enactment and the implementation of the Hydrocarbons Law which is designed to improve the participation of GEPetrol and other local companies such as Sonagas in oil and gas development in the central African country.
                                The managing director will present the company’s vision as Equatorial Guinea seeks to accelerate oil and gas exploration
                            

Moreover, while the Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons is positioning Equatorial Guinea as a regional hydrocarbons processing hub as part of the Gas Mega Hub, GEPetrol, under the leadership of Oburu, is embarking on a number of initiatives aimed at attracting foreign direct investments to expand the country’s refinery capacity and to expand the monetization of the country’s energy resources.



AEW 2022 provides a perfect platform for the managing director to promote the Gas Mega Hub concept and the company’s strategy in making Equatorial Guinea a regional and continental hub for the processing and transportation of hydrocarbons.



Moreover, with Equatorial Guinea seeking to maximize oil and gas production and monetization by increasing its reserves, Oburu is leading GEPetrol in various discussions with local, regional and international oil and gas companies and investors to develop and expand the Zafiro oil field and the Fortuna Floating Liquefied Natural Gas project.



At AEW 2022, Oburu will provide an update on progress regarding the development and expansion of the Zafiro project while promoting investment opportunities across Equatorial Guinea’s entire oil and gas value chain. In addition, following a 2021 announcement by GEPetrol that the company is embarking on a series of digital transformation initiatives to remain competitive, Oburu will share the status of the initiative and the impact it will have in reforming the NOC’s operations. Moreover, with the African Petroleum Producers’ Organization, which Equatorial Guinea is member of, calling on improved cooperation between NOCs of its member-countries to address challenges within Africa’s hydrocarbons landscape, at AEW 2022, Oburu will discuss the role of African NOCs in enhancing the exploration and exploitation of the continent’s oil and gas resources to make energy poverty history by 2030.



“The AEC is honored to host Antonio Oburu Ondo at African Energy Week, where he will participate in the NOC Forum where GEPetrol, together with other African NOCs, will expand on discussions around how Africa can address the investment and infrastructure rollout gap that is hindering the growth of the hydrocarbons sector. We are proud to have Equatorial Guinea’s entire energy value chain represented at Africa’s premier event for the sector with the Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons and the national gas company, Sonagas, also attending and participating to discuss the future of Africa’s energy sector,” states Tomás C. Gerbasio, Strategy and Business Development Director – African Energy Week 2022.



Under the theme, Exploring and Investing in Africa’s Energy Future while Driving an Enabling Environment, AEW 2022 will host Antonio Oburu Ondo in panel discussions and high-level meetings to discuss issues such as local content development and how Africa can attract investments to boost oil and gas development.

AEW 2022 is the AEC’s annual conference, exhibition and networking event. AEW 2022 unites African energy stakeholders with investors and international partners to drive industry growth and development and promote Africa as the destination for energy investments. Key organizations such as the African Petroleum Producers Organization, as well as African heavyweights including Equatorial Guinea and Nigeria, have partnered with AEW, strengthening the role the event will play in Africa’s energy future.