JUBA, South Sudan, May 24, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Radisson Hotel Group (RadissonHotels.com) is proud to announce its arrival in South Sudan with the opening of Radisson Blu Hotel, Juba, the country’s first internationally branded 5-star hotel. 



Located in Juba, the fast-growing capital and largest city of South Sudan on the White Nile River, Radisson Blu Hotel, Juba (bit.ly/3GaoCQo) is a 10 minute drive from Juba International Airport, in the heart of the city’s business center.



Radisson Blu Hotel, Juba (bit.ly/3GaoCQo) offers 154 bright and contemporary rooms and suites with views of either the pool, the city, or the famed White Nile River. The rooms are designed for maximum comfort, security, and relaxation. The hotel offers several amenities, including a modern gym, a spacious outdoor pool, and a wellness center which includes a refreshing spa with a sauna, jacuzzi, steam bath, and male and female salons.



Tim Cordon, Area Senior Vice President, Middle East & Africa at Radisson Hotel Group, says: “We are delighted to strengthen our presence in Central Africa by opening the doors to our first hotel in South Sudan and the country’s first five-star internationally branded hotel. With the highest level of security measures in place for a comforting stay, its modern finishes and both business and leisure facilities, coupled with our renowned Radisson Hotels Yes I Can! service and hospitality, we are confident the hotel will be a great addition to help promote the country’s hospitality offering.”
                                With our abundance of inviting facilities, restaurants and bars, we are certain that our hotel will become their home away from home and the venue of choice for events
                            



Featuring a wide array of flavors and cuisines, the hotel’s six bars and restaurants offer a variety of delectable dishes in stylish and welcoming venues. The Larder offers an extensive menu of international cuisine prepared with the freshest ingredients. Guests are invited to sit back and enjoy the latest sporting events at The Sports Bar or head to the Pool & Grill for a refreshing drink along the poolside. The Sky Lounge on the 13th floor offers a breathtaking 360-degree view of Juba, making it the ideal venue to end the day and watch the sunset. Guests can also enjoy a wide selection of light snacks, pastries, and a selection of coffees and teas in the comfortable Lobby Lounge.



George Balassis, General Manager, Radisson Blu Hotel, Juba, says: “In true Radisson style, my passionate team and I look forward to welcoming and making every moment matter for our guests and the community of Juba in hotel where safety & security are a top priority. With our abundance of inviting facilities, restaurants and bars, we are certain that our hotel will become their home away from home and the venue of choice for events and special occasions of all kinds.”



For guests planning to host a meeting or event, the hotel has the largest meeting facilities available in the city, offering three stylishly designed boardrooms, three meeting spaces as well as an expansive ballroom which can accommodate up to 500 guests.  



With the health and safety of guests and team members as its top priority, Radisson Blu Hotel, Juba is implementing the Radisson Hotels Safety Protocol (bit.ly/38c2ZTh) program. The in-depth cleanliness and disinfection protocols were developed in partnership with SGS, the world’s leading inspection, verification, testing and certification company, and are designed to ensure guest safety and peace of mind from check-in to check-out.