JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, May 19, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The Industry Pioneers Fast Tracking Africa’s Energy Sector Growth will be honored at African Energy Week 2022 (AECWeek.com), which is seeking submissions for candidate recipients for its 2022 African Energy Awards. The deadline for submissions is the 31st of June 2022.





The African Energy Chamber (AEC) is proud to announce that the African Energy Awards will return to Africa’s premier event energy event, African Energy Week (AEW) on 18 – 21 October, 2022 in Cape Town, to celebrate excellence, innovation and pioneering work being done by professionals and organizations within the continent’s energy industry.



Now, the AEC is calling out to industry leaders, professionals, and common citizens from across the continent, to submit proposals for candidate recipients for the several different categories honored at the African Energy Awards, bestowed to extraordinary individuals during AEW, the continent’s leading energy event and the biggest celebration of the AEC’s relentless campaign to Make Energy Poverty History by 2030.



The AEC is asking the wider audience to submit their proposals through the email awards@aecweek.com for the following categories:



National Oil Company of the Year Award

As the continent addresses the energy transition, National Oil Companies (NOCs) are playing a fundamental role in empowering African nations to take more value from their energy resources. This award recognized the achievements of the NOC that has most proven capable to not only be a reliable partner, but to be the leading entity in the road to its nation’s energy ambitions.



African Gas Monetization of the year

This award recognizes companies and projects that are upheaving gas monetization in Africa to close the energy poverty gap.



Operational Excellence Award
                                AEW 2022 will celebrate industry achievements, and discuss challenges and opportunities within Africa’s oil, gas and energy sector
                            

This award goes to the company that has excelled in operating in the continent in a novel, sustainable and locally impactful way.



CEO of the Year Award

This award recognizes the achievement of high-level executives that have demonstrated outstanding leadership in their organizations.



ESG Leader Award

As ESG (environmental, social and governance) becomes a central element in the development of Africa’s natural resources, the continent needs champions that will protect and promote local populations while ensuring fair and safe operations.



Gamechanger Award

This award is given to the company or organization that has revolutionized its field, changing the rules of what is common ground and what has become the new rule.



African Independent of the Year Award

A new breed of explorers is taking up the challenge of sustainably developing the continent’s hydrocarbon resources. This award goes to the independent who has succeeded in making a footprint in the continent and opening up the upstream game for new explorers to come.



Lifetime achievement award (This category is not open to public nominations)

This award is granted to the person/persons who have taken courageous steps in promoting the wellbeing of African citizens, the socioeconomic stability of its nation, and towards improving the functioning and profitability of the energy and hydrocarbon markets.



Under the theme, “Exploring and Investing in Africa’s Energy Future while Driving an Enabling Environment,” AEW 2022 will celebrate industry achievements, and discuss challenges and opportunities within Africa’s oil, gas and energy sector.