LAGOS, Nigeria, May 25, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            DR SHOGO OYENIYI (www.DrShogo.org), a Nigerian Peak Performance Career Coach and Business/Emotional Intelligence maven has been accepted into Forbes Coaches Council, an invitation-only community for leading business and career coaches. As a conscientious and seasoned business expert, he has trained hundreds of small businesses in Africa.



DR SHOGO OYENIYI was vetted and selected by a review committee based on the depth and diversity of his experience. Criteria for acceptance include a track record of successfully impacting business growth metrics, as well as personal and professional achievements and honors. Some of these include hosting webinars and conferences with an average of over 50,000 participants in one city and training over 70,000 people in the past year. With an adept knowledge of the business and commercial sphere, DR SHOGO OYENIYI serves as a personal advisor to influential and high net-worth people.

His official website, www.DrShogo.org is an online beacon of illumination which functions as a pool of ideas where private and/or corporate entities derive solutions, strategies, and elucidations that will aid their business growth. He teaches via his YouTube channel (https://bit.ly/3MI8at0) on personal growth and development. DR SHOGO OYENIYI is a personal productivity coach with immense love and thirst for the expansion of private and corporate businesses; he coaches via his Telegram channel (t.me/drshogo) for free and on Instagram (https://bit.ly/3wKp1pr).

His mobile app, DR SHOGO, is available for download on Google Playstore via https://bit.ly/39RILyu
                                Our mission with Forbes Councils is to bring together proven leaders from every industry, creating a curated, social capital-driven network
                            

He has a community on Facebook (https://bit.ly/3yY8eRd) with over 7,000 members drawn from different parts of the world. He teaches daily on the platform on individual growth and business productivity titles. His LinkedIn profile account (https://bit.ly/3wQHgsj) engages a vast number of enterprise owners and business moguls who crave his professional expertise and proficiency.

Nevertheless, his philanthropic nature cannot be undermined. This is because he actively participates in several humanitarian acts and outreaches (such as the distribution of 10,000 sanitary pads to the girl-child, hosting youth empowerment programs, and organizing fund-raisers for societal development)  

“We are honored to welcome DR SHOGO OYENIYI into the community,” said Scott Gerber, founder of Forbes Councils, the collective that includes the Forbes Coaches Council. “Our mission with Forbes Councils is to bring together proven leaders from every industry, creating a curated, social capital-driven network that helps every member grow professionally and make an even greater impact on the business world.”

As an accepted member of the Council, SHOGO has access to a variety of exclusive opportunities designed to help him reach peak professional influence. He will connect and collaborate with other respected local leaders in a private forum. SHOGO will also be invited to work with a professional editorial team to share his expert insights in original business articles on Forbes.com and to contribute to published Q&A panels alongside other experts.

Finally, DR SHOGO OYENIYI will benefit from exclusive access to vetted business service partners, membership-branded marketing collateral, and the high-touch support of the Forbes Councils' member concierge team.

DR SHOGO expressed his utmost excitement about joining the community of globally-acknowledged coaches and said he is enthusiastic to learn from other coaches around the world and contribute to the growth and development of mankind.