JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, May 25, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Engineering services and technologies company, Technip Energies, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with COS Petrogaz – the agency tasked with the definition, supervision, evaluation and control of implementation of state policy in oil and gas projects in Senegal. The MoU will see the two organizations collaborating in the fields of Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG), carbon free energy solutions and decarbonization as both Technip and COS Petrogaz move to accelerate gas development in Senegal within an energy transition energy landscape.





As per the terms of the MoU, the Technip and COS Petrogaz teams will work together towards improving knowledge and technology transfer related to water, oil and gas treatment process engineering; different types of onshore platforms and installations; and offshore gas field development concepts, with Technip tasked with conducting studies set out by COS Petrogaz’ overall gas development strategy. Additionally, the partnership aims to investigate the energy transition, with workshops and skills transfer initiatives broadening knowledge and skills regarding energy transition-related concepts. As the MSGBC region gradually positions itself as a globally competitive gas economy, the MoU will be instrumental in accelerating the adoption and monetization of gas.



Representing the voice of the African energy sector, the African Energy Chamber (AEC) welcomes the MoU, viewing the agreement and partnership as a critical step towards improving gas monetization and domestic utilization. While projects such as the $4.6 billion Greater Tortue Ahmeyim (GTA) project – the deepest offshore development in Africa, set to unlock up to 15 trillion cubic feet of gas reserves – and 100,000 barrel per day Sangomar oil project are set to transform the regional energy landscape, the MoU goes one step further to apply local content and capacity building to ensure domestic market growth and beneficiation.


                                Through the MoU, Technip and COS Petrogaz have placed the development of the local workforce and market at the center of the country’s gas expansion
                            

The MoU centers on the need to scale up the domestic workforce through skills and technology transfer, recognizing the role local content plays in driving socioeconomic growth in Africa. While large-scale project developments in Senegal significantly improve energy security, the MoU ensures such developments translate into tangible benefits for the local population, a key step towards making energy poverty history by 2030. Currently, Technip is in charge of upgrading the SAR-owned Mbao refinery and has recently been awarded the engineering, procurement, construction, installation and commissioning contract for the GTA floating production storage and offloading unit. Now, with the MoU, Technip will be strengthening its presence in Senegal while taking on a leading role regarding local content within the natural gas sector. 



“We are very pleased to collaborate with COS Petrogaz in order to support Senegal in its gas development projects and in its objective of achieving a fair and equitable energy transition,” stated Marco Villa, COO, Technip Energies in a press release issued by the company, adding that, “This new collaboration illustrates our firm commitment to be at Senegal’s side in the implementation of its global energy and industrial development strategy.”



Well on its way to become a major player in the global gas space, led by institutions such as COS Petrogaz, Senegal has placed the development of the domestic gas market as a top priority. The country is set to witness unprecedented economic growth on the back of gas and by ensuring the right policies are in place, MoU’s are established, and stakeholders are engaged, COS Petrogaz is leading the sector into a new era of energy security, domestic market improvement and socioeconomic upliftment.



“The MoU signed between Technip Energies and COS Petrogaz will not only be critical for Senegal’s energy industry but can serve as a blueprint for other companies and state institutions from across the African energy sector. Senegal is making considerable progress to advance its natural gas industry with the development of large-scale projects, but it is the country's local content drive that significant advancements will be seen and should be commended. Through the MoU, Technip and COS Petrogaz have placed the development of the local workforce and market at the center of the country’s gas expansion, while at the same time improving gas monetization in a bid to kickstart socioeconomic growth,” states NJ Ayuk, Executive Chairman of the AEC.