MAPUTO, Mozambique, May 23, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The United States and Mozambique governments, civil society, and other partners in the national HIV/AIDS response received approval for the U.S. Government’s President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) Country Operational Plan (COP) for October 2022 through September 2023, also known as COP22.



Led by PEPFAR, the National AIDS Council (CNCS), and the Ministry of Health (MoH), the goal of COP22 programs is to lead Mozambique to achieve the UNAIDS 95-95-95 targets, where 95 percent of people living with HIV are aware of their status, 95 percent of those who tested positive are on treatment, and 95 percent of those on treatment have an undetectable viral load.  Achieving this goal will ultimately control the HIV/AIDS epidemic.

In support of Mozambique’s National HIV Strategic Plan and the Global Fund Funding Request, COP22 focuses on: 1) accelerated efforts to identify and treat children, adolescents, young men, vulnerable populations, and other people living with HIV; 2) strategic investments to maximize program impact, as well as enhanced quality of implementation and patient experience at the site level; and 3) strengthened partnerships with government, multilateral partners, and civil society.  This plan, which totals $404 million dollars, brings the total U.S. Government investment in the HIV response in Mozambique to $4.9 billion dollars since 2004.
                                The COP22 plan represents our shared commitment to achieve epidemic control, by getting 1.9 million Mozambicans on life-saving treatment over the next 18 months
                            

“The COP22 plan represents our shared commitment to achieve epidemic control, by getting 1.9 million Mozambicans on life-saving treatment over the next 18 months,” said U.S. Ambassador to Mozambique Peter H. Vrooman.  “It represents partnership, innovation and adaptability, the implementation of approaches that are tried and true, and it begins to steer our program toward sustainability.”

Worldwide, PEPFAR focuses on 1) delivering quality, people-centered HIV prevention and treatment services; 2) strengthening the capacity and resilience of communities and health systems to address the HIV epidemic and other health challenges; and 3) partnering for greater impact, burden sharing, and sustainability.

Since 2004, the U.S. Government and the American people have made a commitment to a healthy, prosperous Mozambique through investments into the PEPFAR program.  In Mozambique, PEPFAR supports focuses on HIV counseling and testing, adult and pediatric HIV and TB treatment, prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV, psychosocial support, laboratory and health services, pharmacy, as well as by strengthening health systems. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, PEPFAR ensured that the HIV/AIDS program continued to reach populations in need.

In Mozambique, PEPFAR is implemented by the U.S. Embassy through the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD), and the U.S. Peace Corps.

The U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) is the largest commitment by any nation to address a single disease in history, enabled by strong bipartisan support across ten U.S. congresses and four presidential administrations, and through the American people’s generosity. PEPFAR shows the power of what is possible through compassionate, cost-effective, accountable, and transparent American foreign assistance. For more information about PEPFAR’s work, visit www.state.gov/pepfar.