CAIRO, Egypt, May 16, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The U.S. Embassy, in coordination with Egypt’s Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities, is hosting a cultural property workshop to share best practices on combatting illicit trafficking of Egyptian antiquities and cultural objects from May 15 to 19. 





This year’s workshop will feature cultural heritage, judicial, regulatory, and law enforcement experts responsible for investigating, monitoring, prosecuting, and enforcing cultural property crimes and laws.  During the workshop, attendees will exchange information with Egyptian and American counterparts, examine case studies, and visit some of Egypt’s famed cultural sites.
                                Advancing U.S.-Egyptian cooperation to counter the illegal trafficking and trade of Egypt’s cultural artifacts remains a priority of the United States
                            



Commenting on the importance of the workshop to the preservation of Egypt’s cultural heritage, U.S. Embassy Chargé d’Affaires Nicole Shampaine said, “Advancing U.S.-Egyptian cooperation to counter the illegal trafficking and trade of Egypt’s cultural artifacts remains a priority of the United States.  This workshop strengthens our shared efforts to secure and protect Egypt’s renowned archeological sites and cultural objects.”



Egypt was the first country in the Middle East and North Africa to sign a cultural property protection agreement with the United States in 2016, which was renewed in November 2021.  The United States regularly partners with the Egyptian government to investigate the unauthorized removal of archeological material from the country.  This cooperation has resulted in the return of 5,000 priceless manuscripts to Cairo in 2021 and the famed golden sarcophagus of the Priest of Nedjemankh in 2019.



The protection, conservation, and repatriation of Egypt’s cultural heritage is just one of the many ways the United States partners with the people and government of Egypt.