DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, May 30, 2022/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Overlooking Dubai Creek, the vibrant city hotel, Jumeirah (www.Jumeirah.com) Creekside Hotel welcomes the guests from around the globe to enjoy a relaxing time as they pursue their business visits or spend their holidays.



Jumeirah Creekside Hotel brings together the guests’ needs at one place. The hotel is situated in the heart of Dubai where it is located 2km from Dubai International Airport, and just minutes away from some of the city’s most notable landmarks and shopping areas, making it an enticing place for those who wish to experience the contemporary lifestyle in Dubai and discover the attractions across the city. The hotel allows guests to check-in at any time of the day or night and stay for 24-hour interval upon availability.
                                The hotel allows guests to check-in at any time of the day or night and stay for 24-hour interval upon availability
                            

Recognizing the importance of the food & beverages offerings to the guests and the travellers, the hotel is home to four different restaurants, bars and lounges featuring a wide range of cuisines. The hotel’s signature restaurants includes Nomad (International cuisine), Cu-Ba (Contemporary Latin), Plumeria (Gym café with healthy options) and, The Kosher Place (Kosher cuisine).

Additionally, the city hotel is also home to one of the city’s largest art collections. With the aim of connecting guests to the culture and heritage of their surroundings, Jumeirah Creekside Hotel shines a spotlight on the region’s vibrant art scene, housing 482 specially commissioned pieces by 51 artists with roots from across the Middle East. Building on its reputation as an art hub, the hotel further features some of the world’s most celebrated design houses across its grounds, including custom-made furniture by Sawaya Moroni, Walter Knoll, Poltrona Frau, BnB Italia, Frag, Se London, Matteograssi and De Sede. Most impressively, Tom Price, an internationally recognised creator renowned for his sculptural works, was commissioned to create 88 red Meltdown Bowls, which are dotted across the hotel as part of a limited-edition collection.

For more information and for reservations please visit https://bit.ly/3t7uzbp or email jchinfo@jumeirah.com.

In the meantime, stay connected via our social media channels and don’t forget to tag us in your posts #TasteofJumeirah #TimeExceptionallyWellSpent.