JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, May 9, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The African Energy Chamber (AEC) is proud to announce that H.E. Tom Alweendo, Minister of Mines and Energy of the Republic of Namibia, will attend the continent’s premier energy event, African Energy Week (AEW) 2022 (AECWeek.com) in Cape Town, to secure investment for Namibia’s upcoming hydrogen and hydrocarbon boom. Taking place on October 18-21, AEW 2022 unites African opportunities with foreign investors, and as such, represents a critical platform for Namibia’s high potential energy sector.





The attendance and participation of H.E. Alweendo at AEW 2022 is pivotal in shaping dialogue around the future of Namibia’s energy sector and the role the market will play in ensuring energy security across the entire region. Since taking office as the Minister of Energy and Mines in 2018, H.E. Alweendo has led Namibia into a new era of hydrocarbon success, implementing regulatory improvements that have contributed to the discovery of sizable oil and gas reserves by TotalEnergies – at the Venus 1-X Well - and Shell and Qatar Energy – at the Graff-1 Well. With one of the most attractive regulatory environments in Africa, Namibia has shown the role market-driven policies play in driving development. As a result, Namibia’s portfolio of recoverable oil and gas resources continues to expand and with the government seeking to fast-forward the production of resources to meet local and regional energy needs, H.E. Alweendo is prioritizing attracting investment to accelerate infrastructure development.



With AEW 2022 representing the official event to secure investment for African energy projects, and with a range of regional and international investors coming to Cape Town, H.E. Alweendo will be leading a strong Namibian delegation to the event, prioritizing investment partnerships and deals. During the event, H.E. Alweendo will be meeting with new and existing investors, leading panel discussions and investor forums, and making a strong case for Namibia-directed capital commitments in 2022 and beyond. Backed by market-driven policies and sizeable discoveries, Namibia has emerged as one of the most competitive destinations, not only for frontier exploration but for foreign investment. Currently, major players including TotalEnergies, ExxonMobil, ReconAfrica, Eco Atlantic, Africa Energy Corp and Qatar Energy are driving Namibia’s upstream progress, but the opportunities for new explorers are abundant. For explorers, the country is a not-to-be-missed opportunity, and for investors, a particularly rewarding emerging economy.


                                The minister will meet with investors and energy stakeholders to discuss the future of Namibia’s energy sector
                            

At the same time, with a push for local content, the minister will be providing insight into the role oil and gas monetization will play for Namibia’s wider economic agenda. Injecting capital into upstream activities will not only kickstart a hydrocarbon boom, but will trigger sustainable development across every sector of the Namibian economy. With a relatively young and educated population, Namibia’s workforce is well positioned to drive accelerated economic growth and by prioritizing skills transfer and capacity building on the back of energy sector advancements, Namibia has the chance to lead southern Africa’s post-COVID-19 economic recovery. During AEW 2022, H.E. Alweendo will be driving this very narrative, pushing for local content and local company participation.



Meanwhile, with Namibia seeking to diversify its energy mix to fuel industrialization while ensuring energy security, the minister has redirected a focus on the country’s green hydrogen boom. Namibia represents a particularly lucrative hydrogen market owing to the country’s significant renewable potential. In order to capitalize on this potential, projects such as the $9.4 billion green hydrogen project which the government is developing with local green energy supplier, Hyphen Hydrogen Energy, in the Tsau/Khaeb National Park in southern Namibia will place Namibia on the global map for green hydrogen development.



AEW 2022’s Hydrogen Summit will present a perfect platform for Namibia to showcase its hydrogen potential and vision. The minister will interact with hydrogen industry leaders and executives from both the public and private sectors in Africa’s top and prospective hydrogen markets to discuss the future of hydrogen development across the continent and the role of the market in ensuring energy reliability and decarbonization across the continent.



“The AEC is honored to once again host H.E. Alweendo at AEW following a successful 2021 edition where the minister showcased exploration opportunities across the Namibian oil and gas market. With Namibia now increasing its focus on local content development and accelerating the development of recent discoveries, the minister will meet with investors and energy stakeholders to discuss the future of Namibia’s energy sector and how Africa can attract investment to maximize the exploitation of hydrocarbons to diversify the energy mix, ensure energy security and to make energy poverty history across the continent by 2030,” stated NJ Ayuk, Executive Chairman of the AEC.



With TotalEnergies and Shell’s discoveries placing Namibia on the map, the government is eager to ensure the fast-tracked development of these resources. As such, H.E. Alweendo will be discussing the way forward for the country, providing insight into how the country and its major players will be developing resources in a way that is mutually beneficial and ensures the development of the entire economy. Under the theme, “Exploring and Investing in Africa’s Energy Future while Driving an Enabling Environment,” AEW 2022 will host numerous panel discussions, high-level meetings and investor and ministerial forums where discussions will center around oil and gas, investment and green hydrogen.