VICTORIA, Seychelles, May 31, 2022/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Today, the newly accredited ambassador of Japan, H.E Mr OKANIWA Ken, paid a courtesy call on the Principal Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Ambassador Vivianne Fock Tave, at Maison Quéau de Quinssy. Ambassador OKANIWA presented his credentials to the President of the Republic this morning at State House, becoming the 15th Ambassador of Japan accredited to the Republic of Seychelles. He will be based in Nairobi, Kenya. 



Seychelles and Japan have shared excellent bilateral relations throughout the years dating back to the establishment of diplomatic ties in 1976. During his audience with Ambassador Fock Tave, the two diplomats highlighted the bilateral cooperation in several fields such as disaster and risk management, maritime security, and public health collaboration. Ambassador Fock Tave also expressed the government’s gratitude towards the approved grant of Eight Hundred Million Japanese Yen (100 Million Rupees) for financing the construction of the new Marine Police and Anti-Narcotic Centre at Perseverance.  
                                Seychelles and Japan have shared excellent bilateral relations throughout the years dating back to the establishment of diplomatic ties in 1976
                            

Ambassador OKANIWA reassured his government’s commitment to supporting Seychelles in the fight against illegal activities at sea. 

Regarding the tourism sector, Principal Secretary for Tourism, Mrs Sherin Francis, explained her department’s strategy to attract more Japanese tourists to Seychelles, noting that flight connectivity to and from both countries would prove advantageous for the industry. 

Ambassador OKANIWA was accompanied by Ambassador KATO Eiji, Japanese Chargé d’Affaires e.p, based at the Embassy of Japan in Victoria, Mr KATSUMATA Takao, Defence Attaché and Mr Jarel Nibourette, Secretary/Political and Economic Assistant, Embassy of Japan.

Also in attendance was the Director for Bilateral Affairs, Ms Patsy Moustache and First Secretary, Ms Wendy Isnard.